56	Chopper	In the film Predator, Arny’s character Dutch yells at the only surviving member of his team to rendezvous where, to escape the alien? The term originates from a post WW2 culture that involved removing unnecessary pieces of a certain mode of transportation.
57	Hippos	Columbian drug lord Pablo Escobar had certain animals wandering his property after his death that would eventually escape. Now totaling over 100, what kind of nonnative animal, that are known for their rumbly tumbly, is ruining local flora and fauna in Puerto Triunfo?
58	Pharoh	The Kentucky Derby is slated for next Saturday. The longest drought between Triple Crowns was 38 years, when a horse with what monarchial term in its name won all three events? Wonder if they engraved his name in Wingdings…
59	Bandit	In the vocab used in the Air Force, the term “bogey” refers to a plane that is unrecognized as a friendly or a hostile. Once its confirmed to be hostile, the term changes from “bogey” to what, a term to describe such people as Bo Darville and DB Cooper?
61	Mambo No 5	Angela basset, pamela Anderson, Sandra Oh, Rita Moreno
62	Lin Manuel Miranda	In the 9th season of How I Met Your Mother, an episode revolves completely around a lullaby for a kid to fall asleep. What Grammy winning songwriter cameos explaining the word Canada is unrhymable, which, ironically enough, rhymes with his last name?
63	Honeymoon	What compound word traces its origin to the Norse culture, where a couple would drink alcohol every day for 29 days to honor the God of the night, Mani, and the God of prosperity, Freyr?
64	Kansas City	There used to be a city with all their major sports teams revolving around the same theme. Their NBA team moved in 1985 to the west coast. What Midwest city used to be the only city in the US where the teams followed a motif?
65	Ultra	A 20-year span from the mid 50s to the mid 70s saw the CIA illegally attempt to make a “truth serum” to help with the Cold War, by administering LSD to test subjects. What word, found in one of the best-selling drinks in the US, was associated with said test, meaning Top Secret?
66	Katy Perry, Sylvester Stallone, Helen Keller	The cleavage fairy, the slurred monotone, the senseless dweller
68	Goat	The opening act of the film 21 shows the main character breaking down the Monty Hall problem, named after the original host of Let’s Make a Deal. The problem states if there are three doors, and one has a car behind it, the other two have what animal behind them?
69	pulsar	Stayin alive, stayin alive! Scientist Nikola Tesla claimed to the press that he had received a signal from Mars on his radio equipment. It was proven after his death that the signal actually came from what, a magnetized star that emits beams of radiation
70	Step Brothers	name the film from these pixelated images:
71	Corsica	I don’t like sand… What island, located in between France and Italy, is a top 5 island in terms of size in the Mediterranean? Nicknamed The Island of Beauty, it’s known for its extreme terrain differences, and for being the birthplace of Napoleon.
72	We will rock you	It is well known that Don’t Worry, Be Happy is the only song to hit Number 1 on the Billboard Charts. But, a song has surpassed one billion streams on Spotify that doesn’t feature an instrument until the third minute. A physicist designed the sounds heard in the first two minutes with a delay, to mimic echoes. What is the name of this song?
73	Beaver island	Following the death of Joseph Smith, the founder of the Mormon church, James J Strang, lead 3000 people to what Michigan location to start a religious cult? Called “Strangites”, this group anointed Strang as king, only to be assassinated by one of said followers in 1856.
87		
89	word	State nicknames
90	word	Flipped questions
91	word	Those Sneaky Bricks…
99		
100		Mythical Characters
110	Pete rose	In a hilarious reveal, baseball legend Ichirio’s statue was unveiled this past week with a broken bat in hand. Ichiro will go down as one of the best contact hitters in the history of the sport, and retired with more combined hits than what MLB all-time leader?
111	Swan	I said stop looking at me!! Russia’s most famous composer, Tchaikovsky, is known for his emotionally rich and romantic music. In terms of performances, “The Nutcracker” tops the list, and in second, is a ballet with what animal in its title?
112	Molasses	Savannah Accent* Locals in Boston claim that on hot summer days, you can smell what thick liquid used in cooking as you walk through the streets, due to a 1919 flood? A massive storage barrel burst, moving through the city at 35 mph, killing 21 people, and seeped into the affected streets and buildings.
113	Dragon fly	Look out, its Caraxes! The Meganeuropsis Permiana is the scientific name of the largest insect of all time. Native to the southern US and coastal wetlands and known to be a carnivore, what kind of insect was it?
114		
115	Boomerang	Starring Jai Courtney… What TV channel, that launched in 2000 as a spinoff of Cartoon Network, was named after an item that utilizes a combination of angular velocity and gyroscopic precision in order to work?
116	Shire	The county divisions in England are called what? The oldest national divisions in the world, they reference the strongholds of the northern areas, as well as where harfoots, fallohides, and stoors lived before their journey. Happy one hundred and eleventh!
117	Rabbit	In the film Zombieland 2, we meet a dumb character named Madison. Jessie Eisenberg’s character is sent to kill her, after she shows signs of becoming a zombie. He references a quote from the book Of Mice and Men, saying it’s time to teach Lennie about what kind of animal?
118	Spurs	The branches of the interstate highway system are split into two groups. The first is a loop, that is an exit that reconnects to the highway, and what other term, that denotes an exit that doesn’t reconnect? Giddyap, bullseye!
119		
120		
121		
122	word	Sitcom workplaces
123	word	Athletes in film
124	visual	Books without words
125	Billy Bass	A state animal of Alabama was turned into a novelty item that would sing “Take me to the river” by Al Green and Gloria Gayner’s “I will survive” in the early 2000s. This mancave staple had what name?
126	Friday the 13th	The pompous yet caring monarch of the Neighborhood of Make Believe in Mr. Rogers Neighborhood shares his name with what calendar occurrence, that happens on average every 212 days? Not too sure if he ever starred alongside Kevin Bacon or Adrienne King…
127	Colossus	The world’s first programmable digital computer was invented in 1943 Britian and was used to decode German ciphers. It shares is name with the only original 15 X Man that was from mainland Asia. what was the name of this computer?
128		
129	Pandemonium	Its giving birth! In John Milton’s epic Paradise Lost, the capital of Hell, where Satan rules over his council of demons, is called what? Symbolizing chaos, rebellion, and ambition, the name also shows up in the games Diablo and Doom, and movies like Hellraiser and the Purge.
130	Matterhorn	A ride exclusively at Disney Land park is the only ride whose official name also has the name of a sport in it. please name this ride, that opened in 1959.
131	Apple bottom jeans	What St. Louis based clothing brand, started by Nelly, got a large spike in sales in 2003, due to another rapper shouting out the brand in one of his songs? “Damn gurl you look good in those jeans”!
132	Creed	“You were in the parking lot earlier”! A spinoff from one of the highest rated film trilogies of all time, released in 2015 and directed by Ryan Coogler, shares its name with what Office character?
133	Philosophers stone	The first Harry Potter book changed what word in its title when it was released in America? The term used for the British release references a mythical item that had the power to turn simple metals into gold.
134	Easter Island	“You idiot, give me some hubba bubba”! What island, 2300 miles off the coast of Chile, houses 887 13-foot stones that were built to commemorate their Polynesian ancestors?
135	Guiness	Hugh Beaver, a management director, came up with an idea to write a book in 1955 to settle pub disputes that he would frequently hear about. Hugh was the director of what European company’s headquarters?
136	The Cars	“Who’s gonna drive you home, tonight”? Covered by the likes of Ziggy Marley for 50 First Dates, Tim McGraw, and the Scorpions, the song Drive chronicles the narrators concern for a loved one’s battle with addiction. What band ironically originally recorded the song, releasing it in 1984?
137	Roger	Daltrey? Goodell? Bannister??? Droids in the Star Wars universe say what first name twice to convey to each other that they understand orders?
138	Rainbow Connection	When Disney closed the Muppet Theater ride in June to make way for a Monsters, Inc land, Jim Henson’s daughter Heather was the last person to exit the theater. Fans gathered around her, and in tribute, sang what song?
139	Cannonball	What outdated weapon, invented in 1450 by French engineers, can be found in the name of the event people compete in to get across the country the fastest? FYI, the current record is under 26 hours….
140	Camels	The Sigma derby betting machines in Las Vegas are the oldest machines found on the strip. Only one remains and is horse themed. The machine at Excalibur were knights, the one at Ceasars had chariots, and what animal adorned the machine at the Luxor?
141	John Fogerty	In 2010, the only MLB player to be inducted to the HOF was outfielder Andre “The Hawk” Dawson. Due to this, they invited what Rock legend to come and perform at the ceremony, making him the only musician to ever perform at the ceremony?
142	Ernest Hemingway	Kenny Chesney 13th studio album is named after what American icon? Drawing inspiration from his life and literature, particularly on themes of a full & adventurous life, after he settled in Key West, songs include “Live a Little” and “You and Tequila”.
143	Supermarket	If you’re Tracy Chapman, and you happen to have a Fast Car, you work at what kind of establishment?
144	Chernobyl	The top 25 rated TV shows on IMDB, only two have locations on earth in the title. The documentary “Vietnam” is one, with the other having what city in its title, where one of the worst events in human history took place?
145	Alpaca	Michigan towns like Frankfort, Howell, and Cadillac all have farms dedicated to raising what animal? Native to South America, said animal is becoming more sought after for its fur, as well as its ability to be relatively social.
146	Explore, expand, exterminate, exploit	The German Board Game association gives out the award for the best new board game of the years, called the Spiel Des Jahres. The org states that there are 4 ways to win a board game, known as the four “ex’s”. Name one of these ways to win a game.
147	Coco Crisp	Stadiumtalk.com ranked the 25 best MLB names of the 21st century in a recent list. What player, who played for the Indians, Red Sox, and Athletics, came in at the top spot, sharing his name with a breakfast cereal?
148		
149		
150		
151		
152		
153		
154	Secretariat	According to an ESPN analysis, what sports figure, known for his devastating speed and being mostly associated with one state, has the most roads in the US named after him?
155		
156		
157		Good Boy Edition
158		Hear! Me! Roar! Saturday AM Edition…
159		
160		
161		
162		
163		
165		
166		
167	word	Did you tape the instructions?
168	word	Disney movie opening lines
169	visual	Minimalistic tendencies
170	Astoria	The ex-wife of one of the Muppets shares her name with a world famous bakery in Motown, and the back half of a famous NYC spot, of which he is also named. What is the name of the only “ex” of a Muppet?
171	Georgetown	Ok so… Michigan won. Eat it up. What D1 university, founded in 1789 as a Jesuit school, adopted the colors of both Civil War sides after the peace treaty was signed, in order to honor students who came from both sides of the conflict?
172	Tom thumb and Thumbelina	In the film Shrek 2, we see what two English folklore characters, who weren’t even as big as their father’s apposable fingers, being swept up by a street sweeper on the red carpet before the royal ball?
173	Operation Paul Bunyan	2 US soldiers died in the DMZ on Aug 18, 1976, after trimming a tree that blocked two UN checkpoints. President Ford launched a forceful operation to cut the tree down, naming it after what large legendary logger?
174	Duck master	The Peabody hotels in Memphis, Orlando, and other cities have an employee named what “master”, that marches the hotels mascot through the lobby every day at 11 AM to the hotel fountain?
175	Skid Row	Aww, you guys made me stink!! Considered by many to be the most dangerous areas in the US, what is the name of the neighborhood found in LA, west of the Arts District, where crime rates are one of the highest in the country?
176	Crusades	What one word term describes a militaristic time from the 11th to 13th century, where the knights templar guarded certain holy sites, including the alleged homes of the Arc of the Covenant and the Holy Grail?
177	Daniel Craig	Occurring in the years 2012 and 2021, what man was in the leading roles for the last two movies who have won the Best Original Song at the Oscars, for songs whose titles are the same as the film?
178	Abba	“I promise to love you evermore”… What music group won the 1974 Eurovision competition, launching them to international stardom? Winning with a song chronicling a woman surrendering to love, using Napoleons defeat as a metaphor…
179	Australia	One of the longest manmade structures in the world is a fence located in what country, that is designed to keep one animal inside the Strzelecki desert, and outside the main population zone?
180	Boeing	“I am serious… and don’t call me Shirley”. At over 98 acres in size, the largest building in the world could hold all of Disney Land inside of it. Located in Everett, Washington, the building is owned by what company?
181	Ain’t no rest for the wicked	Elphaba never sleeps! A song by Cage the Elephant is a modern idiom taken from the book of Isaiah, that chronicles an encounter with a prostitute a robber, and a preacher. What is the name of this song, that takes its name from the phrase in Isaiah 48:22?
182	Niklaus vs Palmer, Ali vs Frasier	In 2022, ESPN released their “End of the Century” lists, ranking everything from best athletes to best moments. On the list of best rivalries, only two make the top 10 where its two specific people pitted against one another. Name one of them.
183	Bend it like Beckham	In December 2010, North Korea showed its first western movie on public television. What 2002 film with a real person’s name in the title, starring Kiera Knightley, Johnathon Rhys Meyers, and Parminder Nagra, did they broadcast?
184	Flute	Using an instrument that someone who’s kind of a big deal loves to play, would one need to wake a snoozing Snorlax that is blocking the path to Diglett’s Cave in the OG Pokémon games?
185	Dairy Queen	I like the one in Charlotte! Until 1975, when McDonalds overtook them for the top spot, what fast food chain, mostly known for after dinner treats, had the most locations in the US?
186	Jim Carrey	Actor Mason Thames just broke a 30-year record, as he starred in three number one movies at the box office this year, including HTTYD and Regretting You. What actor had held the record since 1994, when he had possibly the best single year in film history?
187	Fudruckers	The 2006 film Idiocracy chronicles a future where social intelligence has taken a downfall. It satires companies like Costco, Carl’s Jr, and what “World’s Greatest Hamburger” chain, that closed its Flint location in 2022?
188	Wild Bill Hickock	Born James Butler, what sharpshooter and American Folk Hero was murdered in South Dakota after winning a game of 5 card stud, holding the cards now known as the “Dead Mans Hand”? Don’t forget, he has two locations in Saginaw, two in Bay City, and one in Midland… PTTTTNNNNNNGGGGG!
189	Harpers Ferry	What mode of transportation named town, located at the conflux of the borders of West Virginia, Virginia, and Maryland, is considered the most highly contested area of the Civil War? Flipping sides 8 times, it was the home of a federal armory and the connection of the Shenandoah and Potomac rivers.
190	Winston Churchill, Oscar wilde, Charles dickens, Charles darwin, Stephen Hawking	Gone, but not forgotten… People buried or have memorials at Westminster Abbey Winston Churchill, Oscar wilde, Charles dickens, Charles darwin, Stephen Hawking
191		
192		
193		
194		
195		
196	Delta Force	Since the last time we saw each other on a non-themed night, the acting world lost Chuck Norris. One of his most popular movies, where Norris stars alongside Liam Neeson, is called what, also the most elite US Army unit, that specializes in counterterrorism?
197	Tai Chi	Mr. Norris was a tenth degree blackbelt, and word-renowned master of the martial arts. The four elements in Avatar: the Last Airbender are modeled after martial arts, with fire being modeled after shaolin and earth bending after hung gar. Water bending is modeled after what martial art, known as gentle and flowing?
198	Fleetwood	Elvis was known to be flashy. His iconic 1955 pink Cadillac was what kind of model, that shares its name with the first half of an 80s band, and the last name of a current top three golfer in the world?
199	Christ Stapleton	Game of Thrones was known for its musical cameos, including people like Ed Sheeran, Snow Patrol, and Coldplay, who are featured in scenes across the 7 Kingdoms. The only American singer to cameo was what travellin ACM “Artist of the Decade” for the 2010s?
200	Saved by the bell	What sports phrase, that lent itself to a sitcom that ran for four seasons starting in 1989, originated from boxers running and hiding from their opponents until time was up?
201	Mandolin	Wild Eyed Serenade by Jason Eady, Take it all Back by Judah and the Lion, and the most popular song by Bruce Hornsby all reference what instrument? Originating in 17thy century Italy, its known for its unique sound holes. This is the way.
202	Lead	Jelly time! The highest incorporated town in the US is an old mining town in Colorado that sits at over 10,000 feet elevation. What toxic element, with atomic number 82 and is mostly found in batteries, is the town named after?
203	Belgium	The Maginot Line was a perceived impenetrable defensive barrier developed by the French in the 30s, meant to deter the Germans from a ground invasion. However, the Germans just, well, went around. They maneuvered the Ardennes forest in what country to get into France?
204	Squib	What is the term used in Harry Potter for a non-magical person born into a magical family? It shares its name with a filmmaking device that’s used to depict more realistic action scenes, used in films like Black Hawk Down and John Wick.
205	Japan	The 1941 neo noir film The Maltese Falcon has two characters who are referred to as “Little Boy” and “Fat Man” throughout. These nicknames are associated with a very grim event that took place in what country?
206	Sheep	Masters’ week! What animal, due to golf courses originally being built on shorelines, were the original reasons bunkers exist in the game? Said animals would burrow into the soft soil to shelter from the wind and are often known to be given up for kindling or cinder.
207		
208		
209		The kappa
210		
211	word	Movie Boosts
212	word	Sports and Food
213	visual	Book by the cover
214	Bull run and Appomattox	Wilmer Mclean was just an ordinary Virginian grocer that lived in 19th century America. His grocery store was right next to the where the first land battle of the Civil War. He hated it, so he moved to the other side of the same state. The treaty between the north and the south was signed in his parlor. Name either  the first land battle or in what town the treaty was signed.
215	Shaggy dog	In the show Game of Thrones, each of the Stark kids is given a Direwolf after they find a litter of 6. Rickon’s wolf shares its name with what 1959 Disney live action film? Plots stayed relatively similar, other than the ages of the main characters….
216	Cougars	At the beginning of trails in the Sleeping Bear National Park, you’ll find warnings to be aware of what kind of animal, as locals theorize there are still some that linger throughout the area? Watch out, middle aged men!
217	KISS	In the season 1 episode of Supernatural titled “Nightmare”, Sam and Dean travel to Saginaw to investigate a killing. At the house, they introduce themselves as Father Simmons and Father Frehley, a reference to what “Michigan” band, that played the 1975 Cadillac Homecoming dance?
218	Home improvement	In the film Toy Story, the red toolbox that hides Woody in Sid’s room says “Binford Tools” on the front. Binford is a fictional tool brand that shows up consistently in what Michigan based sitcom, that ran for 8 seasons? Heidy ho!
219	Peach	“This one is for my one and only true love”. In the season 6 episode of Seinfeld “The Doodle”, Kramer becomes obsessed with the fictional Mackinaw variety of what fruit? OIKOS fruit eventually created the real varietal and can now be picked in southwestern counties of Michigan.
220	Huron	Ben Schnieder is the frontman of one of my personal favorites bands and has performed songs for shows such as 13 Reasons Why and Shameless. Originally from Okemos, his 4-piece band is named after what Michigan great lake, the one with the longest coastline?
221	Cranbrook	In the film 8 Mile, Eminem’s character faces off in a rap battle against the leader of the Free World Gang, played by Anthony Mackie. Eminem exposes him for being privileged, as he attended what high school, the most expensive boarding school in the state?
222	Aretha Franklin	WrestleMania III was held at the Pontiac Silverdome in 1987. Drawing over 75,000 fans, some historians argue it’s the largest indoor sporting event of the 20th century. What singer, heard here, got stuck in traffic, and was late to perform America the Beautiful?
223	Sault St Marie	What Michigan town, founded in 1668 as a French Mission and known for major engineering innovation, is the oldest town in the state? Rumor has it, Ted Lasso interviewed for a job there after his success in Richmond, but it was the wrong sport…
224	Boys room	If you’re Ann Arbor based one hit wonder band Brownsville Station, and you’re havin a dart, in what specific place are you enjoying with the fellas?
225	Finnish	End of Ratatouille* In certain areas of the UP, especially the Houghton/Hancock area, the Yooper dialect is aligned with locals speaking what language, even going as far as some towns have street signs in both languages? No wonder they’re so happy…
226	Rising Sun	One of the most accessible shipwrecks in the Great Lakes lies off the shore of Pyramid Point in Leelanau County. Lying in only 6-8 feet of water, and only 100 yards offshore, what is the name of this ship, that it shares with a New Orleans brothel?
227		
228		Tigers
229		
230	visual	Birds
231	visual	Flowers and trees
232	visual	Fish
233		
234	LA Lakers	The Detroit Gems were a 1947 National Basketball League team that played their games at Ferndale High School. They did so poorly, they were sold to Ben Berger for $15,000 and moved to a state that borders a Great Lake. They are now what NBA team, who have a myriad of stories?
235	Zombie horror	A famous film director grew up in Royal Oak, but, while attending MSU, made experimental films around the Saginaw area, utilizing abandoned buildings and nearby forests for the shots. These concepts were lent to his first film series, revolving around what villain or group of villains?
236	Kirby	What sucky Nintendo character, that was first introduced in 1992 in the game Dream Land, shares his name with the guy that was Stan Lee’s main illustrator when they both founded Marvel comics?
237	Quack	An early 90s Disney film revolved around a gentleman being penalized for drunk driving, by having to guide underprivileged kids through the complications of adolescent sports. Said team uses what five letter onomatopoeia as their chant?
238	Ghost town	In the mountains of North Carolina sits an abandoned theme park, only accessible by chairlift. Said park was themed after what kind of spooky area, with examples like Grafton, Bodie, Singapore, and Idlewild?
239	Waco	The two “heroes” in Blazing Saddles are Sherrif Bart, and his alcoholic gunslinger Jim. Jim goes by a nickname that states he’s from what Texas city, where one might find a “flower” market owned by Joanna?
240	15 seconds of fame/15 minutes	MTV’s first non-music video program was an interview show hosted by painter Andy Warhol. What was the name of the show, that people like Rebecca Black, Tay Zonday, and Nancy Zerg could’ve been on?
241	Salem	“It's the proper morning to fly into Hell.” Nathaniel Hawthorne’s book “The House of the Seven Gables” chronicles the history of one of the most visited houses on the east of the Mississippi. Associated with the term “Hob Nob”, said house can be found in what town?
242	French 75	In the newest Paul Thomas Anderson film One Battle After Another, and recent BPW, Leonardo Dicaprio is caught up in the doings of a rebellious group known by what name? Sharing it with a cocktail made with gin, lemon juice, and topped with champagne..
243	Gary Indiana	“Meow”… One can ask the Music Man about the hometown of the Jackson 5, and he’d probably be able to tell you that they grew up in the “Magic City”. With one of the highest abandoned property rates in the country, it’s not so “Magic” now. What city is the famous family from?
244	Catcher in the rye	The best-selling book of all time that has never received a film adaptation is what book, that sounds like Pudge Rodriguez sitting in a grain field?
245	Patagonia	Weighing 75 tons and measuring longer than 125 feet, the Titanosaurus lived in what area of the world? Known for its glacial fjords and high peaks, I wouldn’t be surprised if the dino fossils were found wearing a synchilla…
246	Broken arrow	A B52 Stratofortress accidently dropped a 3.8 megaton nuclear bomb in North Carolina in 1961, which didn’t detonate because of a failed low voltage switch. Historians refer to this event, and others like it, as what two-word term, that can also be seen during the Highland games in Brave?
247	Paul Revere	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow is the only American poet buried inside Westminster Abbey, alongside others like Chaucer, Tennyson, and Kipling. Longfellow’s most famous poem chronicles what folk hero’s loud journey through the Bay State?
248	James Cameron, steven Spielberg, Harvey Weinstein, John Williams, peter Jackson	According to an aggregate study, the five most thanked people in Oscars speeches are who?
249		
250	word	Deadliest warrior
251	word	Mascot Examples
252	word	Victorias secret vs
253		
254		
255		
256		
257	Atlantic City	A 1982 song originally written by the Boss, and later covered by The Band and Zach Bryan, chronicles a trip to what east coast hot spot, that Monopoly Players may know relatively well?
258	Love Shack	What songs music video, sung by a band named after a heavy-duty plane used in key WW2 missions, was the first appearance of TV host RuPaul? The song chronicles an inclusive party spot set back in the middle of a field where people can embrace and smooch.
259	Chicago Bulls	A band called the Alan Parsons Project lent its song “Sirius” to what sports team to use as their player intros in the early 90s? Heard here, it can be heard a lottttt more places than a Plaza De Toros…
260	Vienna	What song, off an album called “The Stranger”, chronicles the song writers’ travels through a central European capital city? He’d see elderly people working everyday jobs, stating in the song they better take a load off before their spark snuffs out.
261	Three doors down	RIP Brad, you will be missed. The group Five for Fighting has a song named after a superhero, lyrics like “I’m more than a bird, more than a plane”. What other band has a song with said superheroes biggest weakness as the song title?
262	Levee	In his song American Pie, Don McLean references a location in his hometown of New Rochelle, New York, where he’d drive his car. What kind of place did he go, a specific type of barrier?
263	Gypsy	A newscaster from a former Soviet constituent would hate the fact that Van Morrison’s Into the Mystic is about the romantic connection between two types of people. Said people are what kind of free-spirited soul, sometimes called “Irish travelers”?
264	NASDAQ	If you’re Childish Gambino at a bonfire, and you’re interested in a woman, you want her to let her booty fall to the floor like what NY based stock exchange, the second largest by market cap?
265	Destinys Child	The iconic guitar riff on Stevie Nick’s Edge of 17 is performed by one of the most well-respected guitarists of all time, Waddy Watchel. What group, that the Green Bay Packers must love, sampled the riff in their 2001 chart topper?
266	Courtyard	Scenario: you’re staying at a Hotel in California. A woman is running the hotel, and as she’s showing you to your room, you see her guy friends dancing in what area of the hotel?
267		
268	audio	BNAS
269	audio	Animated tv show themes
270	audio	Video game themes
271		
272		
273	Do you want to build a snowman	In the recent movie Deadpool and Wolverine, we see Deadpool’s roommate, Blind Al, have an obsession with a certain drug. She asks Deadpool to do the drug with her, by asking what question, that appeared in a song title from the highest grossing film of 2013?
274	Dancing	From 1898 till 1980, the town of Elmore, Oklahoma banned what activity, due to the town council thinking it would promote satanic activity? The local school council, headed by one Kevin, would protest, and eventually get the ban overturned.
275	King Kong and Godzilla	In the Pokémon world, we see many of the creatures directly based on real world animals and myths. The mons Tyranitar and Slaking are directly based on what two mythical beasts, who seem to forever be locked in battle?
276	Bowling for soup	If you were to write a sequel to George Orwell’s bestselling book, you may end up getting a copyright lawsuit filed against you by what sporty band?
277	Daredevil	Jack Kirby and Stan Lee concocted the Avengers last minute, as the art for what comic book characters introductory story wasn’t complete? This “Man without fear” origin story would release 6 months later, where we see him get hit by a truck.
278	Maverick	What term derives from the last name of a Texas rancher, who didn’t follow the norms of other ranchers located around his ranch? This word is used to describe someone who is independent minded, Peter Mitchell, and is also the name for a Cedar Point rollercoaster.
279	Shrimp	A character by the name Benjamin Buford Blue from a 1986 novel described what creature as “the fruit of the sea”?
280	Marshall	The oldest federal law enforcement branch calls its employees what? Operated by Matthew McConaughey and Matthew Fox, this division is known to operate the Witness Protection Program, as well as being the world’s most renowned experts in tracking down those who hide from the law.
281	Ryan Howard	What 2006 National League MVP and Wunderkind appeared as a cameo in the Office episode “Promos”, presenting an idea to Jim and Darryl for his superhero film, titled “The Big Piece”? This athlete was chosen on purpose, because he shares his full name with one of the shows more lovestruck characters.
282	Walk Like an Egyptian by the bangles	The number one Billboard song of 1987 was inspired by the songwriter witnessing people on a boat stumbling around, making sudden arm movements to keep balance. What is the name of this song, that may have been sung by Joe Burrow and AJ Green?
283	Jubilee	The country of Italy is having their year of celebration in the year 2025, with Catholics flocking to the city of Rome to renew their spirit and faith. This celebration has what name, which could be reminiscent of each pilgrim receiving flambeed black cherries spooned over ice cream upon arrival to the city?
284	Kodiak	In 2012, Walmart held a contest, saying Pitbull would perform at the most voted for Walmart in the US. Voters sent him to the most remote Walmart, which is located on what picturesque and waffle filled island, the second largest in the country?
285	Monkey	The infinite theorem, proposed by Hi! I’m Paul! Collingwood in 1938, states that if one were to put an animal in front of a typewriter for an infinite amount of time, the animal would eventually be able to rewrite all of Shakespeare’s works. What kind of animal does this theory say should be put in front of a typewriter?
286	Conch shell	The iconic SpongeBob SquarePants episode “Club SpongeBob” is a direct parody of the book Lord of the Flies, as in both, they use a particular item to either call meetings or answer questions while stranded in the wilderness. What is this item that both groups use?
287	The A Team	English singer-songwriter Ed Sheeran released his first single in the year 2011, and it garnered him his first Grammy nomination. This song shares its name with what fictitious crime fighting group?
288	Hidden Valley Ranch	Steven Hansen, native to Anchorage, Alaska, would make his famous food topping for his work mates in the early 50s. He would retire from said job in 1955, and move to Santa Barbara, California, to jar this delectable delicacy for the public. What is the secretive name of this topping?
289	Doom	Inspired by 80s horror films, what 1993 first person shooter and inaugural Video Game Hall of Fame inductee got its name from a line in the film the Color of Money?
290	Memphis, Raleigh, Green Bay, Sacramento, Orlando	For ten points each, name the five least populous cities in the US with only one major four sports team.
291	Alan Arkin	The accolade for shortest screentime for someone who won an Academy Award for their role in a film belongs to what actor? The film was released in 2006, the actor was only on screen for 14 minutes, and it is the actors only Academy Award. His role in the film is described as a grouchy grandfather.
292		
293		
294		Disney Movies
295		
296	Ireland	The only upside-down traffic light in the world can be found in Syracuse, NY, because people from what country, who have a very heavy influence in the area, want their color to be above the British red?
297	Bonnie and Clyde	“Warren, what did you do?!?”. After killing multiple people in Oklahoma and Texas, what “folk hero” duo were killed by a police ambush on a rural road in 1934 Louisiana?
298	Bruce Springsteen	Country singer Eric Church’s most streamed song on Spotify is a song named after what singer? Chronicalling a summer love, the music video should get remade with Jeremy Allen White as the lead…
299	Mad Hatter	Lewis Carroll coined what term in his 1865 Magnum Opus tale, that refers to milliners inhaling mercury when making their products, that sold for 10 schillings and a sixpence?
300	Preying Mantis	The largest Navy operation in the latter half of the 1900s revolved around US forces attacking and overtaking oil platforms from the Iranians. The operation was named after what insect, known for having “supernatural powers”, and is sometimes voiced by Seth Rogen?
301	Thong	The first commercially available router was made by a company based in Silicon Valley. This company shares its name with a rapper who, in his most popular song, sings about what piece of clothing?
302	6	Off to work we go! Contrary to popular belief, how many characters sing “Heigh Ho!” in the 1937 film Snow White?
303	The sandlot	Legend states that on the Fourth of July, the only night of the year that there was enough light to see the field, a baseball game was played at what location?
304	U2 spy plane	Area 51 was originally established as a joint operation by the US Air Force and Lockhead Martin to test what piece of aircraft? The funny thing is that conspiracy theorists still haven’t found what they’re looking for…
305	Barns	Champion of Appalachian culture Donna Sue Groves wanted to honor her late mother in 2001, and started the movement of putting quilts on what kind of building? One of the fastest growing public art movements of the 21st century, there are over 7000 registered as of 2024.
306	Sam Goody	If you were to drive 3 hours from the last Blockbuster in Bend, Oregon, you’d see the last of what store in Medford, Oregon? At one point having over 800, including one in Fashion Square, said store was known by some as “record collector haven”.
307	Don Perignon	What monk, that lived from 1638 – 1715, will always be associated with a certain type of alcohol, as he said he was “tasting the stars”? Being the cellar master of Hautvillers winery, he was able to experiment with grapes like chardonnay and pinot noir.
308	Flatbed Ford	If you’re standing on a corner in Winslow, Arizona, a girl driving in what make and model of car is eyeing you up?
309	Lichtenstein	In front of Turkmenistan, what wealthy micro-state in the northern hemisphere has the longest single word country in the world? As an FYI, Bobby Newport’s Godfather is the Viceroy…
310	Bridges of Madison County	Amazon.com’s book section calls what 1990s best seller and eventual 1995 film, that starred two of the biggest film stars of all time, the “essential 90s romance novel”?
311	Erie Canal	Medallions depicting the Greek Gods Pan and Poseidon was given to every were given to esteemed Americans in 1826, after the completion of what landmark? People including the surviving Washingtons and surviving presidents received said medal, and less than 30 are known to exist.
312	Ganondorf	If you were to take the last name of the sidekick in the tv show Dragnet, and add the name of a straight to DVD movie character who knows everything about golf, baseball, and fishing, you’d get what video game character? Originally shown in 1986, he wasn’t spoken of by name until 1992 in the game’s sequel.
313	Lillehammer	In the last 50 years, the smallest Olympic cities in terms of population have been Pyongyang, Lake Placid, and what 1994 Olympics town, that sounds like a kid in Modern Family took up carpentry?
314	I took the cats in – baha men, morning disgust – starland vocal band, you freeze without me – modern English, absitence and vegetables – marcys playground, never poem of a boy – 9 days	Using the opposite one hit wonder titles, tell me who sings the songs
315		
316		
317		Name that tune: Bluegrass edition
318		
319	Moon	RIPMTV… on Jan 1, the network shut down its 24-hour music video channels. When MTV launched in 1981, the first thirty seconds on air were clips from what “location”, leading to the inspiration for the iconic statue given out at their award ceremonies?
320	Shirley Temple	“Ginger ale and pomegranate, hold the vodka”. The first celebrity to win an Oscar that wasn’t the size of the original award is what actress, who won the award at 6 years old? She’d retire from acting at the age of 22 and would pass in the year 2014.
321	Burger King	Nintendo’s first game dedicated to a real-life person was released in the year 1987 and was based on the fighting of Mike Tyson. The main character of the game had a name that one could possibly find on the menu at what fast food joint?
322	Wormhole	“He ate my wheelbarrow! He ate my children’s homework”! What term, a staple of science fiction, is used to describe a theoretical tunnel through space and time, that could connect two distant points in the universe?
323	The Bible	A recommendation agreed on by most Jeopardy super champions, like Ken Jennings and Matt Amodio, is to study what book extensively? On average, it appears as a category once every third episode, more than any other book.
324	Pineapple Express	Sharing its name with a 2008 film, what is the weather phenomena called when tropical moisture originates down near Hawaii, and a “river in the sky” quickly bringing the weather to the west coast, causing torrential rainfall?
325	Chubby checker	After the death of Brigitte Bardot at the end of 2025, the only three people still alive whose names can be heard in We Didn’t Start the Fire are Bob Dylan, Bernie Goetz, and what singer, whose name consists of an adjective and a pattern?
326	Big Red	“Help me Jesus! Help me Jewish God”! If you were to walk into a casino and bet on the number 7 being rolled, you’d tell the dealer to put your bet on what? And if it’s not rolled, you look at them and yell “F you”!
327	Rugby	29 of the 31 able bodied African countries boycotted the 1976 Olympics due to a group called the “All Blacks” touring apartheid South Africa before the games. Violating a strict Olympic policy, what sport does the group the “All Blacks” play?
328	Smoke on the water	The music retail chain Sweetwater ran a study in their stores where they found that what 1972 rock song is the most played song on their store demo guitars? With a recognizable riff, the song chronicles a fire above Lake Geneva.
329	Cerberus	Microsoft uses a security mainframe in their data centers that requires three passcodes to pass or disrupt. Seen in the film Olympus has Fallen and taking its name from the finality of death in mythology, the concept is called what?
330	Montgomery	Covered by John Denver, Brandi Carlile, and John Mayer, one of the most re-recorded folk songs ever chronicles a woman’s wish to have a spirit get out of her stagnant marriage. The song states that the spirit would come from what historical city, the first capital of the Confederacy? An artifact from the city is in Detroit, for some reason…
331	Shanghai tunnels	Underneath the downtown of Portland, OR, sits a network of tunnels that were used in the late 1800s to transport goods, and booze during prohibition. These haunted tunnels are called what, taking its name from where they got most of the products shipped from at the time?
332		
333	word	Alongside “Brain Freeze”, Operation! Board game operations that don’t have bones or joints in their name…
334	word	Given the cities of these Michigan chillers books, please name what is the thing terrorizing the city…
335	word	Most photographed buildings in the world according to a cross reference of the New York Times and National Geographic
336	word	The last 6 bands to headline the Super Bowl halftime show
337		
338		
339		
340		
341	Echo	Alpha, Bravo, Charlie…. What word, that can be found in a Greek folklore story about a cursed nymph, was used in the first act of Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back, referring to the Rebel base and soldier groups on the snow planet Hoth?
342	Queens	The first major sporting event held in NYC post 9/11 wasn’t held until 10 days after the attack. Said event was headlined by Mike Piazza hitting a go-ahead homerun, providing a much-needed emotional lift to the city. In what borough of NYC did this event take place? Doug Heffernan may have even been there!
343	Bram Stoker	It’s not BS that authors like Stephen King and Neil Gaiman have notably won the award for dark fantasy and horror writing many times over… What Irish author, who released his Magnum Opus in 1897, are the awards named after?
344	steamboat	Whistle whistle whistle whistle whistle*. Located in Yellowstone, the world’s tallest active geyser can shoot water 300 feet into the air. What is the name of said geyser, that it shares with the first half of a Colorado ski town, and a method of transportation?
345	Lizzie McGuire	“And Lewis and Gilbert will be joining in”! Just a few days ago, the world lost actor Robert Carradine. Mostly known for playing the main character in the Revenge of the Nerds films, he also played the dad on what early 2000s Disney show, where the title character had friends Gordo and Lalaine?
346	Pipe dream	Thank you so much for to playing! What two-word term originated in the late 1800s, where it was used to describe the feeling Englishmen had after seeing fantastical illusions while smoking opium?
347	Pedro Martinez	Make sure to vote! Possibly the most dominant year an MLB pitcher ever had occurred in the year 2000, when what pitcher set the record for lowest WHIP in a season, at .73, as well as the record for most strikeouts per 9 in a season ever, at 10.9?
348	Huckleberry	The first animated TV show to win an Emmy starred a Hannah Barbera character that was full of charm, wit, and luck. Said character had what fruit in its name, native to the higher regions of the Rockies, and can also be found in the name of an independent 1800s literary character?
349	Mariachi	“Coma Esta, bitches”! Director Robert Rodriguez has a pseudo trilogy of Mexican American westerns, with the latest installment being the 2003 “Once upon a time in Mexico”. The main character in all three films shares his name with what kind of music?
350	Rubber banding	What house junk drawer item shares its name with the term used by video game developers to ensure PVP balancing? A prime example would be the last place racer in Mario Kart gets items like Bullet Bills and the dreaded Blue Shell, while first place gets things like coins and bananas.
351	Brick house	A Vanderbilt karaoke staple! What kind of structure was used as a compliment for an attractive and voluptuous woman in the 1970s? When I hear the term, my mind immediately things of Home Alone…
352	Egypt	A collection of the knowledge of the world was founded in 295 BCE. A burning in 48 BC, bookworms, and decline in scholarly support led to its downfall, the greatest collection of historic works the world has ever seen. Historians estimate 80 – 90% of the world’s knowledge was lost during this time. In what country would one have found said collection?
353	Hope – flying dutchman Adrian – Bulldogs Alma – Scots Oakland – golden grizzlies Northern Michigan - wildcats	College Spring Break!
354		
355	visual	2026 RNRHOF Nominees
356	visual	MiLB Alts
357	audio	Musicals Opening numbers
358	word	Comics
359		
360		
361		
362		
363	Yao Ming	What former number 1 pick in the NBA draft had his face turned into a meme caricature in 2009, after he laughed during a press conference?
364	Flying Dutchman	“Leedle Leedle Leedle Lee”! What ship, who’s apparent demise occurred around the mid 1600’s, was known to be seen by sailors on the high seas back in the 18th and 19th century? Turns out, it’s just light travelling through air above the water… it’s their own ship!
365	Wounded Knee	Ow! My Patella! The last major conflict of the Indian Wars as the US expanded west was called what? Occurring in South Dakota, over 300 Lakota natives died, and only 20 Americans perished.
366	Hedgehogs	“Now I’ll show you”! Victorian era homes in England had what small animal in their homes, that were used as pest controllers? Sometimes referred to as “Celler Pigs”, they were kept under stairs to control black beetles and cockroaches.
367	KFC	What fast food company ran a contest in 2018, where they offered any family who named their baby Harland $11,000 dollars? Harland Rose was born on Sept 9th of that year, and the family received the money not too long after…
368	Penn and Teller	Of all the residencies currently found in Vegas, the only show that has a duo in the name, i.e. not a group or individual performer, is what duo, who have been performing at the Rio since 2001?
369	Finding Nemo	“I want to touch it”. The first official photos of a live adult Black Anglerfish were captured in Feb 2025 off the coast of Spain. Till then, all encounters were on deep sea submarines, and in what film, where it possibly gave kids nightmares?
370	Louisiana	The British invasion band the Animals is the only band from said invasion with only one number one hit. Their song that hit number one chronicled a dwelling in what state?
371	Bike/dirtbike	If you were to change the first letter in the moniker used by the rapper who was sent to prison in 2018 for tax evasion, you’d get a sport where participants use what form of transportation?
372	Phil	The character of Mr. Tumnus from The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe shares his species of mythological creature with what Disney character?
373	Harlequin	Sharing its name with a DC villain and originating from Bergamo, Italy, what is the name of a mischievous demon that was personified as a person that wore masks and colors?
374	Edelweiss	The last song Rogers and Hammerstein ever wrote together had what one word title, was performed by Christopher Plummer, can be translated to “noble white”, and was featured in a 1965 film?
375	St Charles	On the original Monopoly board, what pink space shares its name with a township/village in Saginaw County, with business such as Frank’s Market and the famous Coin Shop?
376	Dan Akryod	The entertainment newspaper DailyBeast wrote an article called “Why the Hell was this guy here?”, chronicling what traditionally not-a-singer’s appearance in the 1985 video for “We Are the World”?
377	Budapest	British singer George Ezra had a 2014 chart topping song that chronicled him being far from what city, in which he was looking for love in, where one may find Hawkeye and Black Widow?
378	Operation Paper Clip	“It looks like you're writing a letter. Would you like help?”. What household item code name was given to the operation that the US Armed Forces deployed, where they brought over 1600 German scientists to help give them an advantage over the Soviets after WW2?
379	Jack Nicholson	ScreenJunkies ranked the 10 best lines in comic book movies of all time in a 2023 list. The only line from a film released before 2000 was “Have you ever danced with the devil in the pale moonlight?”. What actor says this line, from a 1989 movie?
380		
381		
382		
383		Band
384		
385	Blood sweat and tears	The finale of Breaking Bad is titled Felina, which fans theorize means Iron Lithium Sodium, which describes what powerful idiom? Referring to achieving something that took significant struggle, it also lends its name to a 60’s jazz band…
386	The carpenters, milli vanilli, culture club, Christopher cross, norah jones	Best new artist
387	Theater	Snap a limb! What term was used to describe the large geographical areas of the US campaigns in World War 2, being labeled the Pacific and European?
388	Pot of coffee	The first webcam was designed by research engineers at Cambridge University in 1991 as time saving hack. Installed in their back room, it was pointed at what kind of object, ensuring them that it’d be there if they took time to make a trip?
389	Animal Crackers	Gosh, oh gee, but at least I have fun! After having the same packaging for 116 years, what brand was forced to remove vertical lines from said packaging in 2018, due to pressure from a major world rights organization?
390	Harmonica	Stevie Wonder makes an uncredited cameo appearance on multiple famous tracks, like True to Your Heart from Mulan and Elton John’s I Guess That’s Why They Call It the Blues. What instrument is Stevie playing in these songs, which he's famous for using the Chromatic style?
391	5	In 1986, Pixar released an animated short titled “Luxo Jr”, showcasing their new brand mascot. He now appears before every Pixar film jumping on top of a ball how many times?
392	Ricola	“Can anyone stop by 711”? What brands commercials were first shown in Europe in 1993, eventually becoming famous stateside in 1997, due to memorable audio branding? The commercials have stuck to the same premise, ending with a person playing an instrument known as an Alpen.
393	Marquette	Sharing his name with a Michigan town, what explorer can be compared to Lewis and Clark, but explored the Midwest extensively instead of the north? Starting his journey in St Ignace in 1673, he’d canoe down to Arkansas and back. Maybe Dwayne Wade joined him at some point?
394	Caper	What round food, found mostly in Mediterranean cuisine, shares its name with a subgenre of crime movies, that focus on detailed planning and execution of an audacious heist with thrown in comedic elements?
395	Plum	What fruit from the same family as cherries shares its name with a board game character? And, if you add a letter to the end of it, it becomes an adjective that describes characters like Rasputia and Tommy Boy.
396	McArthur	The newest country all-star song was released in late Jan, with cowboys like Eric Church, Morgan Wallen, and Tim McGraw all being featured. What one word name is the title of the song, sharing it with a controversial US leader, who was fired by President Truman for insubordination?
397	Wrigley	After the Chicago Fire, a train line was planned that would’ve ran from the Windy City to Lake Geneva in Wisconsin for wealthy families to get out of dodge. Families like the Schwinn’s, Hefner’s, and what other famous name, known for their architectural legacy, their building on Michigan Ave, and a neighborhood north of the city?
398	Budapest	The last person to repatriated after WW2 was Andras Toma, who was captured by the Red Army in 1944. Because he didn’t know Russian, he didn’t speak to anyone for 50 years. He was released back into his own country in 2001, after a ceremony in what capital city, with a backstory involving a few Avengers?
399	I melt with you	What one hit wonder song, sung by a band with a language in its name, revolves around a couple making love while an atomic bomb goes off around them? Symbolizing the concept of “enjoying every second”, it was covered by Bowling for Soup in Sky High, and Jason Mraz in 50 First Dates.
400		
401	word	Best picture winners based during WW2
402	word	Nerdy Television
403		Shawns big day
404		
405		
406		
407		
408	Holy grail	A famous title movie character once had to complete three challenges, being the Path of God, the Word of God, and the Breath of God, in order for him to find what item?
409	Sid	In an obscure 2004 song with an accompanying skit, we learn that Cookie Monsters real name is what, sharing it with a Pixar villain and an extinct version of the slowest animal in the world?
410	White elephant	What holiday tradition gets its name from a Thai king, that would give rare albino creatures to messengers that he disliked? These creatures would be a ruinous burden on the couriers, being an extravagant bur useless possession.
411	Abbey Road	Due to the cultural impact of an event that occurred on September 26, 1969, the most visited UK landmark in the latter half of the 20th century was what junction?
412	Cul De Sac	Wanna go have a catch? What term, that comes from the French meaning “bottom of a bag”, became widespread in post WW2 suburban America, because city planners wanted to ensure fast cars wouldn’t endanger kids in neighborhoods?
413	Miami dolphins	Why do you care about Snowflake? Does he call you at home? The tradition of the 72’ “Champagne Toast” refers to the living members of what team NFL gathering to celebrate the first loss of the last team each year, preserving their accomplishment?
414	Twinkletoes	What demeaning but comical nickname is shared by the Avatar after Roku, a top 3 NFL tight end all time, and a bronto-crane operator at the Slate Rock and Gravel company?
415	Lion	A 45-foot tall and 50-ton statue stands tall and proud outside the largest hotel in the country in terms of rooms, with 6852 in total. What kind of animal is said statue, the largest bronze statue in the US?
416	Rose Bowl Parade	The first nationwide color TV broadcast occurred in 1954, when NBC showed the opening of what sporting event? Occurring on Jan 1st, the network saw it as a blossoming opportunity to show off the new technology.
417	Utah	“Three days of high school, three days of college…” The premier of the award-winning HBO series Band of Brothers was shown at what Normandy Beachhead, the only one that shares its name with a US state?
418	Tequila	Billboard only recognizes one song to top their charts that only has one word in its lyrics. Released in 1958 by The Champs, a band featuring legendary musicians Glen Campbell and Seals & Crofts, what wobbly word is in this song?
419	Hightower	MSU football legend Bubba Smith was a towering 6’7’’ monster of a man, who would have a prolific NFL career as well. He’d go on to play a comedic character in the Police Academy films, with what appropriate name, that he shares with the noble family of Oldtown?
420	Die Hard	The largest aircraft carrier used by the Japanese for Pearl Harbor attack planes was called Akagi, meaning Red Castle. Fans of what movie would recognize this name as the key to a special vault, with valuables amounting to $640 million dollars?
421	Julia louis Dreyfus	The most distracting misspelling of a star’s name on the Walk of Fame is what actress, who had her last name spelled like a Hispanic man? Getting a star in 2010, she’s well known for being Sparky’s neighbor and Princess Atta.
422	Santeria	The characters in the new show It: Welcome to Derry can be seen attempting what kind of Afro-Caribbean ritual to summon Pennywise? Traditionally used to invoke spirits, it also shows up in a 1997 megahit by a fruity band.
423	Janis Ian	The first ever singer to perform live on SNL performed her songs “At Seventeen” and “In the Winter”. What was the name of this performer, that she shares with someone who has a “big fat lesbian crush” on Rachael McCadams? Suck on that!
424	Eureka’s Castle	Before RL Stine began writing his popular “Goosebumps” stories, he was the head writer on what Nickelodeon show? Only running for one season, the name of the show features a kind of building and California’s state motto in the title.
425	Alvin and the chipmunks	The first group to win multiple Grammy’s was what group, that won three awards at the first annual show in 1959? Beating out the likes of Buddy Holly and Frank Sinatra, the group won Best Comedy Performance, Best Song Production, and Best Children’s Song…
426	Aerosmith – dream on, Bruce springsteen – dancing in the dark, Coldplay – yellow, Michael Jackson – billie jean Beatles – here comes the sun	Top Played
427		
428		
429		Bands
430		
431		
432	Lucy and Linus	“End of the line, sonny Jim”. The antagonist in a 1995 film starring Kirsten Dunst and Bradley Peirce as siblings shares his name with what Peanuts characters last name?
433	Heath Ledger	Before a 2008 film, a well-known villain was never known to “lick his lips”. It is now synonyms with the character, because the actor in the film had to constantly lick his, to ensure the prosthetic scars stayed on. What actor changed the way we view said villain?
434	Stockholm	Synonymous with actress Patty Hearst, what international city is associated with the term used to describe someone who undergoes extreme psychological man manipulation and abuse?
435	Flounder	One of the first “villains” we meet in the show SpongeBob SquarePants is a new classmate introduced to Mrs. Puffs class, who wants to beat SpongeBob up. Said character is what kind of fish, who shares its name with a Disney sidekick and an Animal House frat brother?
436	Christean Laetner	When looking at the list of ESPN 30 for 30’s, there is only one episode where an athlete’s full name is used in the title. Known for stepping on someone’s chest, what early 90s “villainous” athlete has his name show up in said title?
437	Exterminate	“Can anyone call Dale”? The famous Dr. Who villains the Daleks are robotic aliens that see the Doctor as their one true enemy. They’re known to really only say one word, which has been stolen by other Sci-Fi properties, like Starship Troopers. What is this word?
438	Lucille	Jeffery Dean Morgans character Negan on the Walking Dead wields a baseball bat wrapped in barbed wire. Sharing its name with GoldDerby.com’s #1 most influential woman in television history, what is the name of the bat?
439	Bolton	Multiple lists, including the once from Collider.com, ranks a person with what last name the best villain in the Game of Thrones series? Said gentlemen shares his last name with a fictional Disney heartthrob and a musician that was the frontman of the band Blackjack.
440	Bounty hunter	In episode 5 of the Star Wars saga, Darth Vader organized a meeting on the deck of the Executor Star Destroyer. The group at said meeting consisted of a Cornellian, a Trandoshan, an unaltered clone, 2 droids, among others. These characters all have what job title?
441	Long John Silvers	What restaurant chain takes its name from the villain of a book by author Robert Louis Stephanson? The book lent its name to a Vegas hotel, that ended its iconic free show in 2013, due to increasing production costs.
442	Scarecrow	Robert Englund, the gentlemen under the hat in the Nightmare on Elm Street films, went on to voice acting after his acting career. He voices what brainy Batman villain in multiple video games, that utilizes the same kind of tactics that Krueger used on screen?
443	Pete	Disney’s oldest and first recurring character predates Mickey by three years, and even Oswald the Rabbit by two years. Said character can only be found in only one of the parks in the US. What is the name of this character, originally depicted as an amputee?
444	Snake	In my top-rated film of all time Prisoners, there is a red herring villain played by David Dasmalthian. He was kidnapped as a kid and now suffers from OCD and schizophrenia. He obsesses enigmatology, and because of this, keeps what kind of animal?
445	word	Weapon of choice
446	word	Man behind the mask
447	word	Say it and tremble
448		
449		
450		
451	Bayou	With JV being back, we must start with a baseball question… Tigers color commentator Andy Dirks uses what sub-tropical and swampy geographic feature as a pun, after a Tigers pitcher strikes out an opponent?
452	Barracuda	What fish, known for being an aggressively fast apex predator, is native to the sub-tropical waters of the Atlantic? The “tigers of the sea”, it lent its name to a song by a sister rock duo, that wrote it to criticize the music industry.
453	Champagne	If your name happens to be Rupert, and you’re singing about drinking a Spanish rum cocktail, you probably also love making love at the witching hour. What other alcohol do you like to drink?
454	Iago and Zazu	The Enchanted Tiki Room at Disney World went “Under New Management” from 1998 until 2011, where what two Disney Renaissance warblers took over the show? Due to major backlash, they scrapped the concept, after one of the animatronics caught ablaze.
455	Baywatch	Iconic slow-motion scenes were used to pad episodes that were too short for what sand filled 1990s TV show, that hunk Jason Mamoa would get his acting start on?
456	Gilligan	Every captain of the Navy’s Blue Angels assumes the callsign “Boss”. The current commander, Captain Adam Bryan, had what callsign before taking command, that he took from a character that wore a red shirt, a white sailor’s hat, and was called “little buddy”?
457	Crystal lake	Behind lakes like Torch, Leelanau, and Houghton, what 9th largest inland lake in the state shares its name with the lake that Jason Vorhees drowns in in the Friday the 13th movies? Located on the west side of the state, visitors can see the town of Pilgrim and the famous Cherry Bowl while they visit.
458	Parlay	In the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, what word is used as a formal negotiation/truce between warring pirate factions, leading to a peaceful conference? Sharing its name with a betting term, the most famous instance is when Jack Sparrow calls a truce with Barbossa.
459	Jurassic Park	2 thirty-foot poles stand erect outside Kualoa Ranch, Kuai, Hawaii, which were the foundation for a fictional sign that read what two words on it? The island stood in for the fictional location Isla Nublar, off the coast of Costa Rica. Look out for missing Barbosol cans!
460	John B	Off the album Pet Sounds, there’s a song that chronicles a drunken sailing voyage, where the narrator of the song ends up in the Bahamas yearning to make it back to the mainland. The name of the narrator is what, that it lent to a teenage treasure hunter from North Carolina?
461	Bootstrap	The tv show Lost revolves around time travel, and the idea that the past is caused by future events, aka a time loop. Sharing it with the nickname of Will Turner’s father, this paradox is called what?
462	Witch Doctor	A 1950s song originally recorded by David Seville tells the story of a man going to see what kind cultural magic user to help a woman fall in love with him? Found in many tropical cultures that revolve around the supernatural, we met one in a 2009 Disney film.
463	Tortuga	What island, off the north coast of Haiti, is considered a major pirate stronghold? A major hub for buccaneers and outlaws, the name is a Spanish translation of a reptile, and can also be found in the name of a southern US national park.
464		
465	word	Country music
466	word	Pop music
467	word	Yacht rock
468		
469		
470		
471		
472	Barney	Sound torture is used extensively in places like Guantanamo Bay to subdue captors into giving up intel. One of the sounds they play on repeat is the song “I Love You, You Love Me”, the theme song to what 90s show?
473	Aaron Burr	“Fools who run their mouth wind up dead”. The first “Got Milk?” commercial featured a gentleman on a radio call in game show, who couldn’t say what original patriarch’s name, because he had a sandwich shoved in his mouth?
474	Miracle	Sports commentator Al Michaels has plenty of iconic lines attributed to his name, but possibly his most famous was a question asked in 1980, in New York state. The last word of said question became the title of what movie, that chronicles that moment?
475	Poison	In 1999, the board game Cluedo released a 50th anniversary version with what new way of killing added? Used in films like Se7en and the Sixth Sense, the item was added to make Cluedo nothin but a good time…
476	Jousting	With terms like tilters, gauntlet, and yard, what kind of sporting event does the first three episodes of “A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms” revolve around? Usually performed in front of a crowd, it originates in northern France as a military exercise.
477	Thing	Actor Ted Cassidy had double duty on the original run of the Addams Family, playing the butler Lurch, and what other character? Another servant, its lucky it never got shot by Kurt Russell or Keith David.
478	Phoenix	The symbol that can be found on the side of uniforms, ships, and buildings that belong to the galactic rebellion in the Star Wars universe was modeled after what mythical creature? Known for its cycle of death and life, it was also adopted by the Bottom family after they left the Children of God cult…
479	Ballroom blitz	Steve? Andy? Mick? 70s glam rock band Sweet, known for their song Fox on the Run that was featured on the GOTG soundtrack, also has a famous song chronicling an incident at one of their concerts. At a hall in Northern Ireland, fans began throwing bottles at them in a chaotic craze, which lead to what song title?
480	Mickey Mouse Club	At the end of Full Metal Jacket, we see Joker and his squad walking off singing the theme to what show? With lyrics like “Hey there, hi there, ho there”, “Join the jamboree”, and “Forever hold our banner hi”, it symbolizes the desire to return to innocence.
481	Pabst	Before they gained their cyan sash, what company had to pivot during prohibition, and ended up becoming the main competitor to Velveeta for processed cheese production in the US?
482	Emerson	Poet Henry David Thorough lived on his best friend’s land for 2 years in a cabin near Walden Pond in Mass. What other writer owned said land, whose middle name is a children’s book character, and last name is part of an English rock Supergroup?
483	Timbuktu	Mansa Musa, the richest man to ever walk the earth, had an accumulated wealth of $400 billion at the height of his rule. He invited scholars from all over the world to come and study at what Mali city, as he wanted to turn it into an intellectual capital? And all this time, Shawn convinced me it was fake…
484		
486		Using the hints heard here, answer the questions about the people who have passed in 2026 so far
487		
488		
489	Uranus	A route 66 roadside town in Missouri sells adequate bumper stickers saying, “I love (said town)”. Said bumper sticker can be found on the back of Lone Star and Barf’s RV in the film Spaceballs, saying that they also love what planet?
490	Brick Tamland	What movie character thinks that people seem to like him because he’s polite, is rarely late, loves eating ice cream, and enjoys a nice pair of slacks? Also, he believes that in a few years, a doctor will tell him he has an IQ of 48…
491	Kenny Loggins	The former of what 70s duo and main writer for the band The Doobie Brothers sings the song “I’m Alright”, the tune that the gopher dances to at the end of Caddyshack, heard here?
492	Big Ben	Go Blitzburgh! In the film European Vacation, the Griswolds gets stuck in a roundabout and are unable to escape, making them go round and round all day. Clark constantly tells his kids that there is what landmark, in addition to a building called “Parliament”?
493	Nick	Opa!! In the smash hit My Big Fat Greek Wedding, we see that Ian’s family is very small in comparison to the Portokalos. When the two families finally meet, Gus introduces all the cousins. It seems that all the male cousins have what traditional first name?
494	TiVo	At the end of the film Tropic Thunder, we see Matthew McConouhey’s character save the others from an RPG. What time shifting and culturally significant product, that fell behind other electronics in the mid 2000s, did he use to intercept said missile?
495	Prada	Has she died or something? In the film Legally Blonde, Elle Woods proves that the pool boy is lying on the stand, by proving he’s gay. She gets a hunch after he calls out a piece she’s wearing from what brand?
496	Annexation of Puerto Rico	The last movie comedic actor Rick Moranis starred in before going on hiatus because of his wife’s death was 1994’s Little Giants. The play that was ran to have the Giants win over the Cowboys was called what, something that the 1898 Treaty of Paris caused?
497	Liza Minelli	In School of Rock, Dewey asks the kids their favorite bands. He tells the first three that they’re wrong, and that Christinia Aguilera, Puff Daddy, and what EGOT winner and daughter of Judy Garland are not Rockers?
498	Steve Martin	Although the record for most F bombs used in a film overall goes to Wolf of Wall Street, the record for most times it’s said in under a minute on screen goes to what SNL alum? Nicknamed “pinch”, he says it 18 times in 60 seconds while arguing with a desk attendant.
499	Tim	In the film Monty Python and the Holy Grail, we meet John Cleese’s character, a wizard, who suffers from pyromania. He provides guidance to the cave of Caerbannog, warning the group of a dangerous rabbit. He states that “some people call me” what fundamental name?
500	Dazed and confused	In Forrest Gump, we see Forrest help a guy design a T-shirt. Said simple design is also used as the logo for what 1993 indie comedy, about relentless partying and the uncertainty of youth? N O T D E A D.
502		
507		One Liners
508		
509		
511	word	
512	Down	Big? Kingston? Paul? Coughlin?!? Sharing its name with a button on a PlayStation controller, what song spent the most time on the Billboard Top 10 in the 2000s, at 41 weeks?
513	Aurora	The second largest city in the Prairie State, the third largest in the Centennial state, the Roman goddess of the dawn, and the name of a fictional drowsy duchess all share what name?
514	Corn dog	“Awe, thanks for stopping by”! The apparatus to eat what carnival and stadium food was invented in 1942, when the vendor realized people needed the opportunity to eat greasy and hot food without burning their hands?
515	Dr. Suess	Audrey Geisel, the widow to what prolific American writer, put a stop to live action movie adaptations of her husband’s work after a 2003 release? Staring Alec Baldwin, Sean Hayes, and Dakota Fanning, it scored a measly 9% on Rotten Tomatoes… Dirty Hoe!
516	Blue	Legend Michael Jordan wore his college basketball shorts underneath his Bulls uniform, as he saw it as bad luck if he didn’t. If he were to have pulled up his red Bulls shorts, the color underneath would be what?
517	Pedro Pascall	This past Sunday, fans were reintroduced to the world of Westeros with the show A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms, a prequel to GOT. In GOT lore, we learn of a flamboyant (and possibly bi) warrior from the southernmost kingdom, nicknamed the “Red Viper”, that is played by what actor?
518	Washington, DC	“ALARM: MUTANT PRESENCE DETECTED. ENGAGE”! If your job entailed walking 21 steps north, coming to a halt, turn 180 degrees, clack your heels, and repeating said steps, you would be working in what city?
519	Tierra Del Fuego	One of the most geographically diverse areas in the entire world sits at the southern tip of South America. What is the name of the “land of fire”, known by locals as “the end of the world”, where the southern most city, Ushuaia, sits?
520	Bucky Barnes – the winter soldier	Fresh dust on the board!! After the infamous Thanos acquired all 6 infinity stones in the MCU, he snapped his fingers and half of the world ceased to exist. What Avenger was the first character viewers had to see disintegrate after he snapped?
521	Midas	“Scarn…” The arrogant panpipe playing god Pan challenged the god of music Apollo to a contest to see who was better. The judge chose Pan, and Apollo punished the judge by giving him donkey ears. What was the name of this previously cursed judge?
522	Bob Ross	What TV personality vowed that after he left the military, he’d never raise his voice again, due to his drill sergeant having “the loudest voice he’d ever heard”? Rising to the rank of Master Sergeant, his Alaskan adventures would greatly inspire his works.
523	Czechia	The first woman to win an Olympic medal competed under the flag of Bohemia, a historic European kingdom. Bohemia can be found in the middle of what country, where my mom’s grandparents are from, that’s known to export “untamed and absurd men”!
524		
526	word	Since the lists 2011 inception, 6 players have been ranked number 1 on MLB’s list of 100 best players.
527		
528		
529		
530	Remy	A 2021 SNL skit featuring John Krasinski chronicles what “little” Disney character helping John with his “bedroom activities”?
531	Fat albert	The biggest bear on the North American continent can be found near Kaktovic, Alaska. Being over 1,500 pounds, locals famously nicknamed it after what fictional character, that first appeared in 1967? They probably saw him say “hey” three times…
532	Magnum PI	Tigers’ legends Alan Trammell and Lou Whitaker cameoed as themselves on what TV show, that normally took place on Oahu, HI? The two met the main character of the show in a bar, and gave him tickets to the following days game…
533	Crop circle	What two-word term was coined by British scientist Colin Andrews in the 80s, after researching flattened and intricate patterns? The phenomena turned out to be a hoax, with people using wood, rope, and wire to create an illusion of mystery…
534	Sears	Whatchu talkin bout, Willis? The first company to ever hold a spot in the Fortune 10, only to fall out and then eventually file for bankruptcy, is what company, filing in 2018?
535	Blondie	Clint Eastwood’s character the Man with No Name goes by what nickname in the film The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly? He shares the nickname with a mid 70s rock band, known for their “fearless musical experimentation”?
536	20	If you happen to be Macklemore or Ryan Lewis, and you’re traveling to a Salvation Army, how much money do you have in your pocket?
537	Tina Fey	“You fat lard, come get some dinner”! in 1997, what actress made history, being the first woman to be given the role as lead writer for the show SNL?
538	Marina Del Ray	In terms of number of boat slips, the largest marina in the world is on the west cost of the US, and can accommodate 8,000 boats. What is the name of this marina, where George Strait said goodbye to a love interest?
539	Air guitar	Last week, competitors Ichabod Fame, Ricky Sticky Fingers, and Slappy Nutz are going head-to-head in Oulu, Finland, in what kind of competition? I’d say if Bill and Ted would’ve had one hell of a shot if they were there…
540	Nelson	“Shoplifting is a victimless crime, like punching someone in the dark”. The Promise of the Real is the name of the band headed by the son of oldest living member of the Rock N Roll Hall of Fame that is still touring. The father and son duo share what last name?
541	Rugrats	The first three branded Nicktoons were all premiered on Aug 11, 1991. With two of them having the title characters in the show titles, the third was called what, a slang term for kids crawling on certain surfaces?
542	I spy	American photographer and artist Walter Wick has published over 50 books with what 2-word title, that Lil Yachty probably went looking for in his elementary school library?
543	Dolls	Isla De Las Munecas, an artificial island south of Mexico City, is rated by Discovery.com as the scariest place in North America. The patron of the island, Don Julian Santana Barrera, began hanging what toy on trees in the mid 1950s?
544	Trolls	Danish artist Thomas Danbo creates wooden structures all over the world that resemble what mythical creature? Using thousands of pounds of scrap wood for each, Ben from Baynes has personally met Benny the Beard Fisher, located in the UP…
545	Paul McCartney	Ahead of its demolition in 2008, Billy Joel played the last concert at Shea Stadium. What legend surprised the audience and brought his Wings out for the encore, singing his most popular song, about accepting the present moment?
546	Montreal	When looking at all the cities in North America with a major four sports team, NYC and Boston have the most total championships, in terms of all teams in respective metro areas. What city sits in third, with all championships coming from one sport?
547	PT Barnum	New York construction companies put their faith in what “Prince of Humbugs” man and his resources, known for taking the world and redefining it, to help them convince the public the Brooklyn Bridge was safe to cross in 1883?
548	The American revolution – Lexington and concord, Assassination of franz Ferdinand – Austria, Bobby thompsons home run – at the polo grounds	Shot heard round the world!
549		
550		
551		
552	Rhinoceros	Possibly the coolest name for a grouping of animals, a “Crash” is the name given to a herd of what herbivore, that I definitely don’t want for Christmas?
553	Anthony Hopkins	What Hollywood legend, known for playing Odin in the MCU and Alfred Hitchcock in his biopic, narrates the Jim Carrey version of “How the Grinch Stole Christmas”? The roast beast probably pairs well with a nice bold red…
554	Little drummer boy	Computer programmers at Berkley came up with a challenge in which the participants attempt to avoid what song between Thanksgiving and Christmas? Having over 10,000 participants on FB in 2024, the creators state that “you hear it a lot, but not so much that the game is impossible.”
555	Marley	Rumored to be the “South Bend Shovel Slayer”, Kevin McCallister’s neighbor who ended up hitting Harry and Marv had what name? Probably named after a humbug guys late business partner, it may also be a famous Labrador’s name and the last name of a music legend…
556	Fred Claus	In what Christmas film do we see a “siblings anonymous” support group that the title character of the film attends that features real life E list celebrity siblings? Said support group includes Frank Stallone, Roger Clinton, and Stephen Baldwin.
557	Frosty	Films like Aliens, Predator, and Avatar all have characters that use a phrase meaning stay calm, cool, and collected under pressure. Mostly used before scenes with action, said phrase contains what classic Christmas character?
558	Tim Allen	Disney has a strict “no convict” policy, meaning the company states they won’t hire a criminal for any movie role. They made an exception for a mid 90s Christmas film, where they hired what ex-convict for the films lead, that spent two years in federal prison for possession of cocaine?
559	Philadelphia Eagles	What pro sports team has team members dedicated to raising money for the Children’s Hospital of their city by releasing 3 Christmas albums since 2021? Enlisting the help of Stevie Nicks, Amos Lee, and George Michael, said team was able to take fundraising to new heights for their city.
560	Gonzo	What Muppet, that is confirmed to be from space whose family has been searching for him, narrates the film a Muppet Christmas Carol? Opening on a bustling street, said Muppet is the first character to speak, selling apples, before turning to narration.
561	Central Park	Director Jon Favreau’s one Christmas movie portrayed the guards of what real life location to look dark and ominous, similar to Lord of the Rings Ringwraith? Still under investigation for their antics at the Simon and Garfunkel concert, there theme music can be heard here…
562	Olive Oyl	Mae Questel, the woman that plays the loving and memory loss Aunt Bethany in Christmas Vacation, originally became famous as a voice actress. Voicing all of Betty Boop’s early works, she also voiced what tasty character throughout the 1930s?
563	Cabbage patch kids	Looper.com and other sources mostly attribute the film Jingle All the Way to being based on the toy craze surrounding what brand’s toys? Documentaries on said brand state that toys on the secondary market went for thousands, and small riots even plagued some malls, causing chaos.
564	David Bowie	There are spiders on Mars?!? In one of the most improbable music pairings, who joined Bing Crosby for his final holiday TV special, singing with him Peace on Earth and Little Drummer Boy in his “Thin White Duke” persona?
565	George Michael	One person holds the distinction of being in both the first and second most streamed group of all time when looking at Christmas songs. Passing in the mid 2010’s, please name this late singer.
566	No mans land	A mood of “Live and let live” came across the battlefield on Christmas, 1914, as British and German soldiers laid down their arms to play football and carol without a care in the world. These festivities took place in what area of the battlefield?
567	Japan	It’s a Benihana Christmas! In the Office episode where Andy, Jim, and Michael go to a hibachi dinner during the holidays, Andy orders a cocktail for the group. Featuring ingredients like a raw egg, honey, and booze made from grain, the name of the drink references a city in what country?
568	Lethal Weapon	Todd and Margo’s home from Christmas Vacation, seen here, is the same house used in another “Christmas” movie. Released in 1987 and directed by a man whose last name is the name of one of Santa’s reindeer, name this film.
569		
570		
571		
572	Happy Gilmore	In May, the worst tragedy occurred, when the world lost Morris the Alligator, a 90-100 650-pound behemoth, who died peacefully at the Colorado Gator Farm. He appeared in a 1996 film, where he wrestled what title character, who’s actor posted a tribute to him on Instagram?
573	Bison	Hoosier daddy?? After 65 years, a certain member of the Big Ten Conference finally has a physical mascot, introducing Hoosier on Aug 25. What kind of animal is Hoosier, the official mammal of the United States?
574	Wednesday Addams	In early August, Wendy’s rebranded some stores to what name, inspired by a fictional character that made their screen debut in 1964? Keep the pigtails, and make every customer color blind, basically the same thing!
575	Miami	Still unidentified according to USA Today, the “Phillies Karen” has a bounty on her head for a return of the ball. The strange and fishy incident occurred in what city, at the LoanDepot ballpark, where the other team plays their home games?
576	Moon Mammoth	In early summer, late night talk show host John Oliver decided to rebrand the Detroit Tigers double A affiliate, the Erie SeaWolves, to what new otherworldly name? With a big rock and a prehistoric animal in the new alternative moniker, the mascot will surely be named Manfred…
577	Unibrow	In one of the biggest trade blindsides in sports history, 2025 Luka Doncic is sent to the LA Lakers. Luka is one of the best overseas talents in NBA history, and he shockingly got traded for a former NBA MVP that has what defining facial feature?
578	Robocop	Attention, citizens: he is officially on patrol. A 3500-pound statue was unveiled in Detroit on Dec 3rd depicting what fictional crime fighter, that saved Detroit from Clarence Boddicker’s gang and a venal corporation called Omni?
579	Italian Beef	The TV show the Bear released its fourth season in June. In the show, Jeremy Allen White’s character returns to Chicago to run his family’s sandwich shop. What kind of sandwich, that originated in Chicago and features roast beef and simmered broth, does said shop specialize in?
580	Ragetty Anne	Annabelle, the supposed haunted doll that was investigated by Ed and Lorainne Warren in the 70s, went on a tour in 2025. Sparking controversy around a large-scale fire in Louisiana and possibly being “lost”, this haunted phenom is what kind of doll?
581	Indonesia	The “boat racing kid” blew up the internet in June and July when he was seen on the front of a racing boat, and was dubbed “the guy on planet earth with the most aura”. What country, with the nickname the “Emerald of the Equator”, was this kid racing boats in?
582	Astronomer	During their “Jumbotron song”, Chris Martin of Coldplay accidently outed a tech CEO who was having a relationship with his head of HR. What is the name of this company, that may have hired people with the last names Kepler or Copernicus?
583	Martin	On the season 50 finale of SNL, we saw tons of former cast members, musical guests, celebrities, and more, take the stage to salute 50 years of culture. The celebrity that had opened the show shares his first name with the last name of the celebrity that closed the show. What is said name?
584	Donkey	In January, an animal named Perry died in Palo Alto, CA, at 30 years old. Perry was the inspiration and model for a quick-witted character from the first winner of “Best Animated Feature” at the Oscars, winning the award in 2001. What kind of animal was Perry, who might need a hug?
585	OJ Simpson and Robert Blake	John Mulaney joined Steve Martin on stage during his monologue at SNL 50 and joked that of the 894 different people that have hosted SNL, only 2 have committed murder. Possibly being the best joke of the night, name either of these figures he’s referencing.
586	Pangolin	MLive posted an article in June stating that the only place in the US to see what kind of animal is at the Brookfield Zoo in Chicago? Netflix released a documentary about said animal, where they state they’re the only mammal fully covered in scales…
587	Paul Simon	Going back to SNL 50, the first musical act paired up Sabrina Carpenter with what musical legend, who holds the record of most musical appearances on the show, with 14? Singing the song Homeward Bound, he originally sang said song in 1976 with George Harrison, not Art, on the show.
588	Rory McIlroy	The golf rivalry between countries hit new high this year, as the Ryder Cup was held on Long Island, stereotypically a hostile environment to outsiders. What winner of the 2025 Masters let a “Shut the F up” at the fans on the course, calling it “unacceptable behavior from the Americans”?
589	Forrest Gump	Episode 3 of ST5 was directed by legend Frank Darabont, after taking about a 15-year break. His Magnum Opus, Shawshank Redemption, famously lost Best Picture at the Oscars that year, losing to what film? Franks second biggest film shares its top billed actor with the winning film from that year.
590	Joe cocker, outkast, white stripes, soundgarden, Salt n peppa	2025 Rock n Rollers
591		
592		
593		
594	Ruby Red Slippers	There are about 1000 unaccounted pairs of what kind of shoes that were given out to attendees of the first movie with a “man behind the curtain” trope, oh my. What kind of shoes are these very sought after collectibles?
595	Honey badger	It really doesn’t give a shit… Gunnies Book of World Records notes what mammal as the “most fearless animal on the planet”, which sparked a 2011 viral video of said animal eating snakes and invading a beehive?
596	Blue moon	Originally named Bellyslide Wit, what now national beer was originally made exclusively for the Colorado Rockies? On the day of its ballpark released, a fan remarked “A beer this good only comes around _________________”, giving the beer its forever name.
597	Lincoln	In the film Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs, enlarged food falls from the sky after an experiment goes awry. A scene cuts to Mt Rushmore, where the three presidents on the left get pied in the face, and what fourth president getting pied in the back of the head instead?
598	Banksy	Cha ching! The hottest art in the world right now is regulated by a company named Pest Control, as the artist they authenticate is known to incorporate rats into his art. What is the name of this artist, who no one knows the real identity to?
599	Andre 3000	I’ve been to the year 2004! The record for the shortest Grammy’s acceptance speech of all time is two words, being “Thank you”. What member of a duo accepted the award for Album of the Year, for the album Speakerboxxx?
600	Neanderthals	Most of the hominid species died off about 85000 years ago. The only two that survived were the Homo Sapiens, and what other species, with a few being found at the top of the stairs at the Museum of Natural History?
601	Ska	The video game Tony Hawk Pro Skater has a soundtrack dedicated to three different music genres. Punk, indie, and what upbeat third genre, known to originate on an island, that blended tempo, jazz, and American R&B?
602	Blockbuster	“Coming soon”… What term, mostly associated with the film industry in today’s day, originated from US mortarmen and pilots in WW2 that aimed their explosives at city road crossings to limit transportation capabilities?
603	Orca	In the 1975 Spielberg film “Jaws”, the ship the characters use to hunt the infamous character was named after what animal? One of the only natural predators to a shark, they go by a common nickname, but also “Brynden Tully”.
604	Yellowstone	Considered the most remote place in the lower 48 states is the Thorofare region in Montana, where mail is still delivered by mule. The Thorofare creek intersects with what major river, the longest free flowing, at the conflux of Montana and Wyoming?
605	Freddie Prinze, JR	Before JT won the award three years in a row, what actor was the first man to ever win a Teen Choice “Hottie” award? He would win after starring in She’s All That and I Know What You Did Last Summer, where he probably did some NSFW things behind the scenes…
606	Olivia Newton John	The 80s were filled with a plethora of different acts and groups sending songs to the top of the charts. What three named singer has the record for physical weeks at number one, with 10 straight, in 1981?
607	Small World Paradox	Social psychologists discuss the paradox of when people bump into someone on vacation who happens to know your aunt, or best friend, or dog’s second cousins’ softball buddy. They call said paradox what, sharing the name with part of a theme park ride?
608	Atari	The video game crash of 1983 made what company take all their unsold game cartridges and bury them outside Alamogordo, NM? Being the largest video game company in 1982, owning 80% of the market, they would end up selling the company in 1984, ending their adventure.
609	Apricot	Capitol Reef National Park in Utah houses 14 orchards planted by the Mormon. What fruit, known for its sweet and tart flavor, velvety skin, and can be found on cheese platters, is the most plentiful fruit in said orchard?
610	8	Shirley Temple presented Walt Disney his first Academy Award, for the first feature-length film the studio would ever release. Being a unique award, how many total gold statues adorned the award?
611	Frank Sinatra	Being hundreds of pages long, the FBI file on what celebrity is noted as “the longest file in our extensive database”? Filled with surveillance and notes on celebrities and politicians he flirted with, what parties he attended, and more, the file could be called “From here to eternity”.
612		First lines
613		Mascot of university in Texas, type of plane flown in WW2, Memphis’s Elanor
614		
615		
616		Squad up!
617		
618		Transformers
619	Twister	The first feature film to be released on DVD in the US was what 1996 film, that included a research device named Dorthey and shares its title with a popular children’s game?
620	Guitar hero	6-year Tigers veteran Joel Zumaya had to end his 2006 season early, because he sustained a finger injury playing what video game, with an obscurely shaped controller? Stick to baseball, bud, you’re no Jerry Garcia…
621	Munsters	Occurring on an episode in 1964, what sitcom holds the distinction of being the first US series to show a husband and wife sleeping in the same bed? Taking place at 1313 Mockingbird Lane, the couple in bed together are a combined “hundreds of years old” …
622	Puffin	The Seal Island National Wildlife Refuge sits off the coast of northern Maine, and is the main refugee in the Atlantic for what kind of possibly stoned bird, that are nicknamed the “parrots of the sea”?
623	Men in black	UFO enthusiast Albert Bender, who attempted to publish information about his sightings, coined what colorful term? He stated that mysterious people, possibly government agents, approached him, threatening him to not publish said info. *FLASH*
624	Never Ending Story	“Reach the stars, fly a fantasyyyyy. Ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah”. German author Michael Ende is best known for his 1979 fantasy novel Die unendliche Geschichte, that takes place in Fantastica, and is better known as what?
625	Spam	What brand of meat, a mix of pork and ham, can be found in the musical spinoff of Monty Python and the Holy Grail, that was on Broadway for over 1,500 performances?
626	White glove	You must absolve! The final boss in every Smash Bros video game by Nintendo is what piece of clothing, based on early cartoon characters that had to have high contrast on their appendages?
627	Ray Ban	Actor Tom Cruise is possibly the person to attribute what brands comeback in the 80s, due to using their products in his films Risky Business and Top Gun? Said brand was failing till 1983, when Cruise wore some while dancing to a Bob Seger song…
628	Kansas	Including stops like the world’s largest baseball, world’s largest ball of twine, silos painted like the Budweiser cans, and a memorial dedicated to being the “geographic center of the lower 48”, Travel magazine calls what state the best for roadside attractions?
629	White horse	So, married couples must go there? Located in Rhode Island is the oldest continuously operating restaurant in the US. Opened in 1673, what is the two word name of this tavern, that it shares with a Chris Stapleton song, as well as an animal Mithrandir rides?
630	California Condor	Johnny Cash was sued by the federal government in 1965 after his camper’s heater exploded and burned over 500 acres of forest in California. He almost caused the extinction of what bird, the largest in North America, killing over 95% of the population?
631	Arcade	If you’re Chad Kroeger of Nickelback, and you’re staring at a photograph, where did you spend all of the money that you made at your job?
632	Johnny Appleseed	Massachusetts born John Chapman was a frontiersman that wandered throughout the American east spreading the Swedenborgian faith, which revolved around no one going hungry. This real-life folk hero is better known by what nickname?
633	Mr. Rogers	What TV character, that was on screen for 895 episodes, made it a daily routine to announce that he fed the fish, because a blind viewer wrote in saying she was concerned they weren’t getting fed?
634	Fe fi fo fum	The last time earthlings traveled to and orbited the moon was in 1972, when three astronauts and 4 mice took the trip, orbiting the moon 75 times. The mice were called what, named after the catchphrase of the giant in Jack and the Beanstalk?
635	Cask	With types like Hogshead, Pipe, and Firkin, what type of container can be found in the title of a short story written by Edgar Allen Poe? The story revolves around a man attempting to take revenge on his friend, in a city around carnival time…
636	Ronald Reagan	The 1932 World Series pitted the New York Yankees against the Chicago Cubs. What future president, known for his athletic stature, was a sportscaster before getting into politics, and called the famous Babe Ruth called shot on local Chicago radios during the game?
637		Kevin James, Zookeeper
638		
639		
640		Cartoon themes
641		
642		
643	Panda	“The mood is tense… nothing quite like this. He will literally rip your face off.” The WWE was forced to change their name in 2001, when they were sued by a non-profit organization with what animal as their logo?
644	Pompeii	Bastille, an English indie rock band formed in 2010, released their most popular song in 2013. What was the name of this song, that shares its name with a UNESCO world heritage site, located in Campina, Italy, near Naples?
645	Spaceship	The Heavan’s Gate cult, founded by Marshall Applewhite in 1972, is primarily known for mass suicides in 1997, after the Hale-Bop comet passed by Earth. The cult was under the assumption that what kind of transportation was going to pick them up, and didn’t?
646	Malaria	The capitals of Georgia and both Carolinas can be found inland, because the wealthy plantation owners would retreat from the coast in the summer to escape what sickness, that thrived near the coasts?
647	Pink Cadillac	The pyramid scheme Mary Kay incentives its sellers to top the sales charts, by offering them what colorful and fast prize, that can also be found on the B side of Bruce Springsteen’s single “Dancing in the Dark”?
648	Shorts	If you were to flip some letters around in the name of the oldest Michigan beer brand, established in Detroit in 1850, you’d get what current Michigan brewery, that sits in the top 5 in yearly barrel production?
649	Speakeasy	What early 20th century secretive place, popular in cities like NYC and Chicago, got its name from people telling other people about it in soft and quiet voices?
650	Elephants	Possibly the biggest event of the Second Punic War, Hannibal crossed the Alps to attack the Romans on their home turf. He crossed the Alps using what animal, that he probably got tips from the Haradrim on using?
651	Happy days	Weezer’s music video for the song “Buddy Holly” opens in front of a diner called Arnold’s, where a worker says “From Kenosha, Wisconsin, Weezer, and while you’re here, try the fish”. What 70s sitcom does the music video take place in?
652	Crayola	Alongside LEGO, what other brand was included on the original inductees to the Strong Toy Hall of Fame in 1998? Located in Pennsylvania, the company has made over 400 different product SKUs since its inception in 1902.
653	Vanderbilt	Located in Asheville, North Carolina is the Biltmore Estate, the largest private residence in the US. At over 175,000 square feet, it’s owned and operated by what historic family, whose late 19th century patriarchal nickname was “Commodore”?
654	Flying Circus	They don’t make sketch shows like they used too in the 70s anymore… Including names like Eric Idle, John Clease, and possibly even the Disney character Dumbo, what was the name of the sketch show that many people claim is the best sketch comedy show of all time?
655	Notre Dame	“Life is 10% what happens and 90% of how you handle it”. What US university, known for their depiction of a religious figure on the side of a building, has the title a woman receives in leu of the term “Knight” in its name?
656	Triangles	“I’m Mr. Frundles”! Organizations like the FBI, NSA, and CIA use what shape when mapping out angles of buildings and pathways to optimize for safe passage during critical situations?
657	Corvette	The first spaceship the public ever saw on screen in a Star Wars film was at the beginning of A New Hope, when we saw the Tantive IV belonging to the House of Organa. This class of ship shares its name with what GM car, first produced in Flint in 1953?
658	Buffalo	Widely known as the worlds “least exciting sentence”, what animal, due to its homophonic nature, can be found repeated 8 times, which can be read as said animal being intimidated in an east coast city?
659	Jericho	What was the name of the city that God told Israelites to march around for 7 days blowing trumpets, with the walls of the city falling on day 7? Said religious plan lent its name to the weapon Tony Stark showcased in the beginning of Iron Man, as it would take a whole city down in one blow.
660	Shaolin	The most expensive album ever sold was a single produced record by the Wu Tang Klan, that was titled “Once Upon a Time” in what area? A Buddhist temple at the base of Song Mountain in the Henan Province, their followers are known to be extremely passive, but deadly.
662	The dark Knight – Bank, Good will hunting - bar, Talladega nights - car, ET - Forest, The hangover - desert	First Place...
663		
664		
665		All WNBA teams
666		MASH characters
667	Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald	While wandering through the Canada Pavillion at EPCOT, one can hear the instrumental to an emotional folk ballad, heard here. Released in 1976 by Canadian Gordon, it recounted what 1975 disaster?
668	Bullseye	50 points for Gryffindor! What Pixar character was originally supposed to be voiced by Martin Short, before director John Lasseter decided it would be better if the character acted/sounded like a puppy?
669	Ratatouille	Many films stereotypically end with the screen text “The End”, but films like A Fish Called Wanda, Django Unchained, and what Pixar film end with the three-letter abbreviation FIN?
670	Julie Andrews	Of the over 150 different actors and actresses that have won an Academy Award for best actor/actress in a film, the only person who has won the award for starring as the lead in a Disney film is what person?
671	The mamas and the papas	AAAAAHHHHHH!!! Before rebranding in 2018 to feature the Incredibles, California Adventure’s first rollercoaster was named after a song by what folk band?
672	Pumba	A 2024 article released for the 30-year anniversary of the film chronicled an argument between the voice actor for what character and Elton John, because Elton didn’t want the only on-screen Disney farting character singing one of his masterpieces?
673	Sauna	Scenario: you’re wandering through Arendelle searching for your sister. Its bitter cold, so you stop into Wandering Oaken’s Trading Post to try and warm up. It’s hosting its Big Summer Blowout! What amenity is in the back of the shop?
674	Sid	Fittingly, the carpet inside the Overlook Hotel from The Shining, seen here, is the exact design of what Disney character’s carpet inside of his house? “I wanna ride the pony”…
675	Jango Fett	The voice of Moana’s father, Chief Tui, belongs to the man who famously plays “the father of a million sons”, Temuera Morrison. What is the name of his most popular character, known for being a badass, but was killed by a magic purple stick?
676	Tom Sawyer	To pave the way for a new land dedicated to Pixar’s Cars, Magic Kingdom had to close an attraction in Frontierland in early June dedicated to what storybook character? Visitors could wander dusty roads, explore whirling mills, and you may even wander across a frontier fort…
677	Tale	The first Disney animated TV block started in 1990 with four TV shows. Alongside Darkwing Duck and Chip N Dale: Rescue Rangers, the other two shows shared what word in their titles?
678	Woody	Lego attempts to put little easter eggs in their sets, and that includes the new Magic of Disney set, where they used certain bricks on the inside of Mickey to create a character’s color scheme. With colors from top to bottom going brown, white, red, yellow, black/white, blue, and brown, what character did Lego hide inside the mouse?
679	Wall E	The director of what Pixar property took inspiration from Charlie Chaplin films, using squeaky sounds to showcase actions, leaving the first 20 minutes of his film without any dialogue?
680	Pocahontas	In the film Ratatouille, Remy experiences synesthesia, a brain function that allows the senses to open two pathways at the same time, when he’s eating food. This phenomenon occurs in what Disney renaissance film, where the lead character “hears colors”?
681	Liberty bell	Located between Fantasyland and Frontierland is an exact replica of what American treasure, whose original can be found on the east side of the country, at 526 Market Street? Don’t go at 2:22, Ben Gates and his team may all be there…
682	Powerline	The son of one of Disney’s Fab Five dresses up in Mickey’s Halloween Parade as what fictional pop star, that appears in a 1995 film? Based on Michael Jackson and Prince, said character shares his name with something everyone that works at baynes sees when they look up every day…
683	DJ Pooh	Ice Cube starred alongside Chris Tucker in the 1995 cult film Friday, but he also co-wrote the film with what record producer, who took his name from A.A Milnes most popular character, who has a meet and great in Fantasyland?
684	Roger Rabbit	In the Disneyland Fun Sing Along Special, we see the stars of the show scrambling to open the park. Once the park opens, they break into the iconic song “Mainstreet USA”, where Mickey, Minnie, Goofy, Donald, and other characters frolic down the road. What character, that first appeared in an 80s film, is the only character that walks down Mainstreet that no longer has a meet and greet at the park?
685		
686		Star wars costumed characters
687		
688		
689		
690		
691		Characters voiced by singers
692	Frankenstein	Doctors in the 1800s would grave rob to find and use “resurrected” cadavers for their studies. This practice inspired what British monster novel, that took place in Geneva, Switzerland?
693	Nickelodeon – are you afraid of the dark?	A TV show’s title from what network asked a question, that a psychiatrist may ask to someone who suffers from a very common fear, nyctophobia?
694	Nic Cage	“I’m a vampire! I’m a vampire! I’m a vampire!”. A meme and conspiracy surfaced in 2012 focusing on what celebrity, where people thought he may be a vampire, due to a striking resemblance to an 1870s photo?
695	Moth man	With the story originating in the mountains of the American east, what legend is considered an omen, as sightings of the beast are directly related to catastrophic events, like the Silver Bridge collapse in 1967?
696	Mr. Hyde	In the original run of the show Scooby Doo, Where Are You?!, the gang faces off against a famous literary alter ego that was stealing jewels. What is the name of this character, a foil to an experimental scientist, created by author Robert Louis Stephanson?
697	Vincent Price	“Darkness falls throughout the land”… What legend of the horror genre, starring in films such as House of Wax and The Fly, lent his famously menacing voice to the voiceover for the song “Thriller”?
698	Manson family	Trent Reznor, famed as the composer for films such as Gone Girl and The Social Network, is also the lead singer of the band 9 Inch Nails. He built his music studio in the basement of what family’s home, who committed five murders on August 10, 1969?
699	Jack Nicholson	The Timberline Lodge, located in Government, Oregon, is a four-star destination resort known for standing in for the fictional Overlook Hotel on the big screen. In the early 80s, after a certain film release, the hotel would ban what actor for life, as his presence disturbed guests?
700	War of the worlds	In 1938, famed film director Orson Welles broadcasted a fake public service announcement, saying Martians invaded New Jersey. A percentage of listeners took it seriously, causing panic, inspiring what 2005 Sci-fi horror film?
701	Queen Mary	Considered one of the most haunted places in the US, what WW2 troop ship, docked in Long Beach, CA, garnered the nickname the “Grey Ghost”, which you shouldn’t say three times? A hotspot for shows like Ghost Adventures, reported paranormal activity includes the famous lady in a red dress, and voices of the soldiers in the cabins.
702	Blue oyster cult	Donald Roeser, the singer and lead guitarist for what band, wrote a Halloween staple paralleling Romeo and Juliet’s love, and how love transcends death? The public took it as a plea for suicide, but Donald states it’s "a love song where the love beats the actual physical existence of the partners".
703	Borris Karloff	Mad Monster Party, a 1967 stop motion animated film, was made by Rankin and Bass, who brought us Santa Claus is Coming to Town and Rudolph. What British actor, the original Frankenstein and Grinch, voiced the main character, also Frankenstein?
704	Boogeyman	Viggo Tarasov, a mob boss in the John Wick films, gives Wick the nickname of Baba Yaga. Said nickname translates to what scary being, found in many pop culture mediums, and is used to reference the ghost in the film Sinister?
705	Courage the cowardly dog	What show, known as a horror comedy, was based on the real-life couple William and Margaret Patterson and their dog, Baker, who mysteriously went missing from their middle of nowhere home after reportedly seeing many strange characters?
706	Headless horseman	One of the only original rides left at Disneyland from when the park opened is themed around what myth? If you go to route 9 in NYC, aka Broadway, and head north, you’d end up right in the pages of the story.
707	Bear	Consistently rated as one of, if not the most, gruesome trap in the Saw franchise, a trap that involves a reverse engineered contraption that can spring open, ripping the jaw apart, is named after what animal?
708	Ghost Rider	The AC130-J Hercules, an upgraded version of the regular 130, is known as one of the deadliest aircraft in the US Air Force. It has what nickname, that it shares with a Marvel character named Johnny Blaze?
709		All have played characters in the Addams family
710		
711		
712		
713		
714		Ickis, Oblina, Krumm, the Gromble, the snorch, zimbo
715	Cape Hatteras	Nicknamed the “Graveyard of the Atlantic”, where the cold waters of the north and warm waters of the south meet, what well known geographic feature is the southernmost point of the Outer Banks? With shifting sandbars and extreme currents, over 5000 documented shipwrecks have occurred over last 250 years off the coast.
716		Chuck berry, Fiona apple, Darryl strawberry, jack Lemmon
717		
718		
719		
720		
721		
722		
723		
724		
725		
726		
727		
728		
730	Traveling Wilburries, temple of the dog, Crosby stills nash young, highwaymen, velvet revolver	Supergroups
731	Goblins	If you had 47 Galleons, 28 Sickles, and 392 Knuts in your bank account that you opened at Gringotts, and you wanted to make a withdrawal, what kind of creature would get you your money?
732	Wisconsin	An annual music fest in what state stemmed from the rapper T-Pain rhyming the word mansion with said state in his song “Can’t Believe It”?
733	Caribou	What horned animal native to northern areas of North America and Europe has its name derived from the native language of Mi'kmaq meaning "snow shoveler" or "the one who paws"?
734	Pool	What table game got it’s from a slang term used at horse racing establishments, as it was located in side rooms where people would throw their money together to form one bet?
735	Jon Hamm	In my personal favorite joke made by Zach Galifinakis on his show “Between Two Ferns”, he asks what actor, who starred as Don Draper in one of the most successful shows of all time, if his middle name was “Honey Baked”?
736	Rafiki	On Aug 31, Tshidi Manye took her last bow on Broadway, after two decades and 9,000 shows depicting what wise, shamanistic mandrill?
737	Amazon	According to fantasy author Rick Riordan, what race of mythical women, who praised gods of war, are the sole reason for the worlds ability to have 2-day shipping?
738	Dennis Rodman	What 2011 Naismith Hall of Fame inductee and 5x NBA champ teamed up alongside Hulk Hogan in a 1997 tag team match, where they faced off against Lex Luger and The Giant? Easily could’ve taken place in North Korea…
739	Scotch	Ron Swanson, the leader of the Parks Department of fictional Pawnee, Indiana, loves drinking a booze brand called Lagavulin. It is specifically what kind of booze, that is only made in a certain European country, sometimes on tiny islands?
740	Elroy	Stanley, Phyllis, Jim, Ted… legendary voice actor Daws Butler voiced iconic characters such as Yogi Bear, Huckleberry Hound, Snagglepuss, and what son of George and Jane Jetson?
741	Oklahoma	With its county seat of Boise City, Cimmaron county is the only county in the US that borders four other states. With a population less than 2500, what state can you find Cimmaron county, where the western film of the same name starring Glenn Ford also takes place?
742	Candlestick Park	The last paid concert the Beatles ever performed occurred in 1966, when they played at what California sporting venue, that shares its name from a weapon from the original Clue board game?
743	Bison	What did he say when he left for college? What mammal, that was once widespread across the American grasslands and up into Canada, is statistically the deadliest herbivore found in North America?
744	Shaka Brah	Lilo and Stich can probably tell you that the sign for the letter Y in sign language is similar to what Polynesian greeting, meaning “hang loose” or “right on”?
745	Car wash	The legendary R&B group Rose Royce had their first chart topping hit in 1976 and was one of the biggest successes of the 70s disco era. Their hit chronicled working at what kind of location, that Saginaw has way too many of, where one may meet an Indian chef?
746	Riddler	The machine the Germans used in WW2 for sending communications had over 159 quintillion possible combinations. Nearly impossible to break, the real name of what supervillain is the same as the name of the machine?
747	Manticore	Roy Horn, half of the duo Sigfried and Roy, was famously bitten on stage by a white tiger in 2003 and drug off stage. The tiger shared its name with what kind of mythological creature, that had a face of a human, body of a lion, and the tail of a scorpion?
748		Single named singers
749		
750		
751	Indianapolis	Due to an expansive network of skywalks, tunnels, hotels, and facilities, what sports city is known as the best host city in the US? With multiple organization HQ’s there, including the NCAA, it has garnered the nickname “the amateur sports capital of the world”.
752	Fred flintstone, Donald duck, woody woodpecker, bugs bunny, betty boop, pink panther	Alongside Mickey and minnie mouse, there are six other animated characters on the Hollywood walk of fame that have alliterative names. For ten points each, name them.
753	Arizona	We may lose, and we may win, so open up, I’m climbing in! One can find statues of musician Glenn Fry and songwriter Jackson Browne in a city park in what state?
754	Super Suit	What? Whaatttt? Although she’s never seen on screen, a character by the name of Honey, voiced by Kimberly Adair Clark, is advocating for her evening plans, while her husband is looking for what fashionable item?
755	Tilda Swinton	What actress can be heard here, discussing her battle plan before wanting to send her army against the likes of fauns, mice, foxes, and rhinoceros, to name a few?
756	Kevin Bacon	In a Weird Al song titled “Lame Claim to Fame”, he explains that one time, at a party, he tried to sit by Steve Buscemi. But the seat was taken, by a guy that knows a guy that knows a guy that knows a guy that knows a guy who knows a guy. Who’s seat was it?
757	Little Big Horn	“Sackajawaca. Sacajemia. Sackinabox. Sincodemayo”. Located at the southern border of Montana, what is the name of the river where gold was found, leading to Sitting Bull and Crazy Horse killing every member of the US’s 7th Calvary?
758	Abbot and Costello	The song Red Solo Cup by the late Toby Keith mentions a relationship that the drinker has with his container. He compares it to what duo, with first names Bud and Lou, that were the highest paid performers during the second world war?
759	Jack Sparrow	“We have our heading. Here we go!”. What character was the first person to speak in the Disney DVD intro, followed by scenes from Peter Pan, Ella Enchanted, and Toy Story?
760	Leroy Brown	On the south side of the third biggest city in the US, there’s a guy that stands about six foot four. With nicknames like “treetop lover” and “sir”, this bad man gambler has what name?
761	Uncle Buck	“Well, well, well, they certainly are scraping the bottom of the barrel for cheerleaders these days”. Iconic director John Hughes stopped doing movies after which 1989 film? The lead in said movie passed 4 years after the movie aired, which devastated Hughes, leading to him stopping his career.
762	Raspberry Jam	“Bleeps, Sweeps, and Creeps”! Michael Winslow, the radar operator in Spaceballs known for his manmade sound effects, states that what type of breakfast food is messing with their ships radar?
763	Marmalade	The popular riff “Gitchy Gitchy Ya Ya Da Da” is originally from a song called Labelle. Released in 1987, it was sung by a group with what breakfast item, normally made of oranges, lemons, or grapefruits?
764	Stoic	“You’re as beautiful as the day I lost you…” Lending its name to a character, What word can be attributed to a person who can endure pain and hardship without showing their feelings or complaining about the situation?
765	The Departed	“I'm The Guy Who Does His Job. You Must Be the Other Guy”. The song “Shipping Up to Boston” by the Dropkick Murphys plays over the title card for what film, 20 minutes after the film starts?
766	Bond. James bond	When looking at lists of most words spoken on the big screen by a single character, one of the characters in the top three says “I admire your courage” as his firs line on screen. The second line he speaks is what three word phrase, that he uses as an introduction?
767	Pinocchio	The 28th word spoken in the first “chorus” after the guitar solo of the most listened to song on Spotify from the 20th century is also a character from what Disney film?
768	Piano	According to a song where you stroll through the birthplace of Rock N Roll, one would be able to find a woman by the name of Murial playing what kind of instrument every Friday at the Hollywood?
769	Fergie	“Brennan, that is the voice of an Angel”. In the movie Step Brothers, Dale tells Brennan that his voice is a combination of Jesus and what single named singer, that got her start in the girl group Wild Orchid?
770	Fountains of wayne	Rod Stewarts ex-wife, Rachel Hunter, was the star of what bands 2003 music video, that featured a naked massage, a red bikini, and a sexy strip tease? Adam Schlesinger must’ve been right, she really had it going on…
771		2000s song of the year opening line
772		
773		
774		
794		
795		
796		Time for a close up!
797		
798		Different types of chocolate
799	Eagle	Theorized to be faked and directed by Stanley Kubrick, the Apollo 11 lunar module carrying the first astronauts who *supposedly* landed on the moon was nicknamed what?
800	Declaration of independence	The Beale ciphers are a set of three cryp-texts that people have been attempting to solve for years, as it leads to a buried treasure in Virginia. The first and second puzzle were solved using what document, that was autographed by 56 people?
801	Sphinx	Legend states that what world landmark, located in Africa, has a riddle that asks “What walks on four feet in the morning, two feet at noon, and three feet in the evening”?
802	California	The city of Colma is nicknamed the “City of the Dead”, as it has over ten times the amount of dead people buried compared to people currently living within city limits. The city is found in what state, where the largest mass migration in US history took place?
803	New Mexico	Aviator Keneth Arnold is well known to be the first person to identify a UFO, as he saw one while flying around Mt Rainier in Washington in 1947. A week later, a “craft” crashed in what state, that sparked a 1950s craze centered around aliens?
804	Nosferatu	In the popular SpongeBob episode titled “Graveyard Shift”, we see a character by the name of the Hash Slinging Slasher become the center of attention. We come to find out that instead of him turning off the lights in the Krusty Krab, it’s what early German horror film character?
805	New Jersey	1909 sightings of a large, winged creature and related electrical disturbances point theorists to believe that the Devil lives in a cave system under what state?
806	Amityville	For God’s Sake, Get Out!!! Ronald DeFeo Jr, known as Butch, was apparently lured to murder his family inside their home by his parents on Nov 13, 1974. Dying in 2021 and buried next to his family in nearby Farmington, what town in New York did the murders take place in?
807	Serpent	Designated one of the new 7 Wonders of the World, Chichen Itza is a pyramid in Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula. It’s a Mayan temple dedicated to a diety that is what animal , that they call KulKulKan?
808	Mount Rushmore	“Should’ve gone for…” In case of human extinction, the designer of what national monument etched the Bill of Rights, the Gettysburg Address, the Constitution, and the Declaration of Independence into the walls of his masterpiece?
809	Davy Crocket	What man, who sometimes is depicted as a fictional character but also a legend, is known for his real-life exploits as a frontiersman, a soldier, and politician? Storytellers amplified his doings, naming him the “King of the Wild Frontier”.
810	Chicago	“there’ll be a hot time in an old town tonight”! A legend surrounding a major cities sports team revolves around a woman named Mrs. O’Leary. Her cow supposedly kicked over a lantern in the family barn and caused a massive blaze. What city did this event take place in?
811	Led Zeppelin	A controversy revolving around what band arose when people listened to their most played song backwards, theorizing it was a message to follow Satan? If I played it backwards, I’d call it freefall to hell…
812	ET	Movie goers theorize that what other being is a part of Star Wars canon, because he can be seen attempting to engage with Yoda in his respective film, as well as cameoing with two others on the Senate floor on Coruscant?
813	Jackelope	The virus Lagomorphic Pomponella virus causes mammals to grow small little horns all over their body. This virus could be root of the tales and stories of what American cryptid?
814	Helter Skelter	Charles Manson outspokenly talked about what scenario, that he compared to a time of chaos and disorganization, and the beginning of the apocalypse? He got the name from a Beatles song, which he theorized was a prophecy for a coming race war.
815	Kevin Kostner	In baseballs craziest urban legend, Cal Ripken, Jr allegedly got in a fight with what “Ray Kinsella” movie star, who he “caught” sleeping with his wife? Due to a head injury, he almost missed a game and would’ve not beat Lou Gehrig’s record.
816	Penitentiary	According to LiveScience.com and National Geographic, three of the five most haunted places in the country have what term in their names? With locations in Pennsylvania, WV, and Ohio, these facilities really don’t function anymore but are used as tourist attractions.
817	Mars attacks, chicken little, aliens in the attic, zathura, starship troopers	Aliens galore
818		
819		
820	Batman	Hugo Strange, the glasses clad scientist who grew up in Hell’s Crucible on the southside of Arkham, was the first character to deduce the identity of what superhero?
821	C3PO	Lip Gallagher from the TV show Shameless states in his MIT interview that he wants to hang out with what hero, that’s fluent in over 6 million forms of communication, in his lifetime?
822	The chameleon	Spider Man’s first villain he ever faced is named Dmitri Smerdyakov. Originally not having any superpowers and instead being a master of disguise, his villain moniker is what animal, that thrives in warm, woody habitats?
823	Indiana Jones	There are multiple kiosks at the entrance to Petra, a rock carved city and 7th wonder of the world, dedicated to selling memorabilia of what hero? In the respective film, the shooting location was Petra, but was renamed to the “Canyon of the Crescent Moon”…
824	Gilgamesh	The Old Babylonian tablets, circa 1800 BCE, are the oldest known stories revolving around what first known hero? Depicted as a demi-god who can destroy space time and conjure weapons, this hero can also be found in the MCU, falling in love with a Greek goddess…
825	Misty	In the original Pokémon Anime, we see Ash Ketchum team up with the Pewter City gym leader Brock, and the Cerulean City gym leader. The ladder has what name, that she shares with a type of early morning weather?
826	Aliens	“Use the wand of power”! In Toy Story 2, what toy joins the group after being found in the Pizza Planet car after Buzz and gang jump in to go and rescue Andy from Al?
827	Valkyrie	Spoiler alert!! When Stoick the Vast dies in HTTYD 2, Gobber states that he hopes that what class of warrior will welcome him to the afterlife in Valhalla?
828	Cerberus	In two separate book series, we see the main character discover they have magical powers over nature, and that they can talk to animals. After receiving their magical weapons, traveling to a magical place, and getting a gift from their fathers, both books see the characters having to encounter what mythical beast?
829	Jack Sparrow	What Disney hero, in a deleted scene of a film, can be seen freeing slaves while working for the Dutch East India Company, while the Wicked Wench burned in the background?
830	Terrance Howard and Edward Norton	Over the course of the first phase of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, two heroes were recast after their original appearance. Name either of the original actors that were eventually recast.
831	Merlin	Some legends state that what mythical hero, that some say was real, used his esoteric knowledge of charms to create Stonehenge? Moving stones from Ireland to England, said person used the rocks as a burial site, nicknamed the “Giants Dance”.
832	Les Miserable	In the opening of Deadpool Vs Wolverine, we see the inside of Logans skull with the number 24601 written on the inside. The writers put this reference there, stealing the number from what other Hugh Jackman project?
833	Bill Pullman	“Remember me, for centuries”! One of the newest members of the MCU was born to what famous father, who can be seen either making the best speech of all time, or using his laser sword, which is as big as mine?
834	Wreck it ralph	Top Disney ride enthusiasts say that what unrepresented Disney film character should get a ride at Disney, with rides like a drop tower, a dueling race coaster, and a VR battle simulator all being proposed?
835	Sparta	In a 2006 film, Michael Fassbender played a warrior from what European city, where he responds to the threat “our arrows will block out the sun” with the line “then we will fight in the shade”?
836	Fate	Created 23 years before the more well-known Dr. Strange, what is the word that follows the word Doctor in DC’s equivalent magical manipulator? Named Kent Nelson, he encountered a cosmic being named Nabu, who gave him his signature gold helmet.
837	Iran	Let’s pivot… the last time an action film won the Oscar for Best Film that also was based on a true story was in the early 2010s. With the film having a name that is shared with a mythical ship, the events from this movie took place in what country?
838	LOTR – Aragorn, Dark Knight Trilogy – Alfred Pennyworth, James Bond - M, Shrek – Donkey, Space Jam – Daffy Duck	After the following characters, name the person who has the second most lines in these films/franchises.
839		
840		
841		
842		
843	Clown	“You’re gonna die”!! Being I consulted for a mini golf course this past summer, lets visit the world of Happy Gilmore. Chubs takes him to a mini golf course where Happy destroys a hole with what kind of entertainer as the focal point?
844	Never gonna give you up	A link on the imageboard website 4Chan sent nerds on a frenzy, as the link stated it would take them to a secret video showcasing GTA4’s game trailer. Instead, it took them to a video showing them what song?
845	Indiana Jones	An iconic scene in an 80s film set in Africa with what main character shows him shooting a man instead of fighting close range, because the actor had to rush off screen to defecate?
846	Gorgons	In the hit Netflix show Wednesday starring Jenna Ortega, we see Nevermore have multiple different cliques. These include Furs aka werewolves, Fangs aka vampires, Scales aka sirens, and Stoners, aka what?
847	Lake Mead	Before casino regulations went into effect in the early 60s, casino heads would apparently throw old chips into what nearby lake, that happens to have 1908 boats, to prevent stealing and counterfeiting?
848	Wasted	Supergroup Blind Faith, featuring Eric Clapton, Steve Winwood, and Steve Baker, had a mega hit called “Can’t Find My Way Home”. What word, that one may see after perishing in GTA, was the reason the person couldn’t get there?
849	Flintstones	What show, that first aired in the year 1960, licensed its show name to Bayer in 1968, and has had a product made with the characters likeness made ever sense?
850	Sasquatch	The native Sts’ailes people of British Columbia, Canada, explained to journalist JW Burns that a giant destroyed two local family homes in 1922. The linguistic term used for the giant by the locals was Americanized to what word?
851	Georgia	The only three delisted UNESCO World Heritage Sites are an oil field in Oman, a garden sanctuary in Germany, and a church in what country, the only country that shares its name with a US state?
852	Hoffman	97X, Bam! The only surname to be shared by two men who have won the best actor award at the Oscars is what, with the two gentlemen winning in 1980/89, and 2005?
853	Loch Ness	Operation Deepscan was an expedition headed by Adrian Shine, a scientist in the UK Navy, in October 1987. He formed a “flotilla” of 24 boats, and scanned what 755-foot-deep body of water?
854	Guggenheim	One of the most affluent people to perish on the Titanic had what well known last name? His brother would go on to design an American museum, that is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and is considered the best example of modern architecture.
855	Da Vinci Code	“In London lies a knight a Pope interred, His labour’s fruit a Holy wrath incurred” is the start to one of the clues of what fictional quest, where the final key is the word “APPLE”?
856	Wookie	Comedian John Oliver stated that since Scotland made their national animal the unicorn, the Americans should be a little more creative, and change theirs to what fictional race? Born in the city of Rwookrrorro and first appearing on screen in 1977, we didn’t meet a second one until 2005…
857	Cicada	Known as the most infamous computer mystery of all time, 3301 was an organization searching for the world’s most intelligent people, by sending them on real life scavenger hunts. What bug, that is heavily associated with the eastern and southeastern parts of the US, is the organization also known by?
858	Dewey	What minor Disney character, introduced in 1938 and is a part of a group, shares a name with one of the people in one of the most infamous and incorrect newspaper headlines of all time?
859	Avalanche	Of all four major sports leagues, there is only one team whose name ends with a vowel. Taking its name from a natural phenomenon, what team, who won its last title in 2022, holds this distinction?
860	Gettysburg	Considered to be the hardest test in history, the test to become a guide at what American site has only a pass rate of 8%? Buffs study sites like the Jennie Wade house, the Seminary Ridge museum, and the Dobbin House tavern extensively, but sometimes are unable to keep their heads.
861	Bohemian rhapsody, every breath you take, iris, yellow, blinding lights	Using the years, name the most played song on Spotify from the last five decades.
862		
863		
864		
865		
866		
867	Leopard’s	Taking inspiration from a band with albums like Hysteria, Pyromania, and Adrenalize, the State School of the Deaf in Alabama has a mascot of what animal?
868	Dr Doolittle	World renowned zoologist Dr. Jane Goodall was inspired to become a primatologist by the writings of Hugh Lofting, and his most popular book character. What is the name of this character? No word on is she likes the Downey, Jr., Harrison, or Murphy version the best…
869	Queen	Coachella, one of the biggest music festivals in the world, took place over the last couple weekends. American Idol alum Benson Boone brought out Brian May, the guitarist from what band, with the crowd not really recognizing his iconic curly hair?
870	When you wish upon a star	What song, sung by Cliff Edwards and written for a film released in 1940, was the song that won Disney his first Oscar for Best Original Song?
871	San Antonio Spurs	When looking at the chart for highest winning percentage ever for players in the NBA, the top three players all played for the same team from 2001 – 2016. What team is had these three players, with player nicknames like the Torpedo and Magician, who took said team to the playoffs each year during that run?
872	Hive mind	The Last of Us, the most famous video game TV adaptation ever created, is back. The cordyceps entity that is behind the main enemies of the show is known as what two-word phrase, aka a collective intelligence? Other examples include Unity in Rick and Morty, the Sequid in Invincible, and the aliens in the film Edge of Tomorrow.
873	Iceland	The Astronaut Monument, located in a town called Husavik, has 32 names on it dedicated to the Apollo astronauts that trained in the town, as it was the closest landscape to the moon found on Earth. In what country would you find Husavik?
874	Tombstone	The Ballad of Boot Hill, a 1965 song recorded by Johnny Cash, chronicles the story of Les More, a gentleman killed in what historic town, south of Tuscon?
875	Tootsie pop	Biomedical engineers at Purdue University released a study saying that, on average, the answer to what brands slogan is 364?
876	Chi chi’s	Sharing its name with Ross and Monica’s dog growing up, what is the name of the defunked but hopefully returning company, that sold the trademark to Jimmy Buffet so he could start his restaurant chain?
877	Edge of seventeen	Alongside songs like White Horse by Chris Stapleton and Sleeping on the Blacktop by Colter Wall, only one song sung by a woman appears on the list for the ten most used walk-up songs in the MLB. Sung by the first woman to be inducted into the RNR HOF twice, what is this song, a tribute to John Lennon?
878	Babylonian	What was the name of the middle eastern empire, whose capital can be found in the name of one of the 7 ancient wonders of the world? The said capital can also be found in the name of an early 90s show, where we see a looming war between the Centauri and the Narn.
879	Panama by Van Halen	What song, released in the mid 80s and by a band whose name describes where they’re from, is the best-selling song with a country in the title of the song, selling over a million copies?
880	Solid snake	The first two non-Nintendo characters to join the Super Smash Bros world both joined the frame in 2006. Both having animals in their names, what character, alongside Sonic the Hedgehog, was a little sneaky, and got into the game?
881	Buffy the vampire slayer	The band Nerfherder got its name from a famous Star Wars line, where Leia insults Han. Their most famous song, heard here, is the intro to what show?
882	Maine	Scenario: you and your soul mate want to take a cross-country road trip to see all the 48 continental states. You can only drive into each state once, and want to end the trip on Santa Monica Pier for the sunset, so that means you must start in what state?
883	Mamma Mia, Abba	For over ten weeks in 1976, Bohemian Rhapsody sat at the top of the Billboard charts. It was eventually replaced by a song not by Queen, but whose title is heard in Queens lyrics from Bohemian Rhapsody. What song overtook Queen?
884	Albania	In one of the highest rated Simpsons episodes, Crepes of Wrath, the family takes in an exchange student named Adil Hoxha, who turns out to be a communist spy. What country was this character from, the second in the world alphabetically?
885	Snikt – wolverine, thwip – spider man, boom – black bolt, krakathoom – thor, wank – captain america	Using the 5 comic book sound effects seen here, name the superheroes associated with said effect.
886		
887		
888		
889	Star Wars	In what fictional property do the characters speak an eerily similar language to ours called Basic, as the language of English would not have been invented yet, as the story was set a long time ago?
890	Ecuador	The closest place to space on earth is at the tip of Chimborazo, a stratovolcano, that can be found in what country? With its capital of Quito and its immense number of finches, this country is known as the world’s foremost exporter of orchids and bananas.
891	Grand funk – grand funk railroad	What two words can be found on the left side of a historical train crossing located in downtown Flint? Homer Simpson may know something kind of wonderful about this one, as he says it’s his favorite thing to listen to…
892	Apothecary	What was the archaic name for someone who prepared and sold medicine to physicians and patients in the 13th and 14th century? Deriving from a term describing a place where wine and spices are stored, this term may also show up on the resume of one D Rose.
893	David Copperfield	Selling over 33 million tickets and grossing over $4 billion US dollars, what non-singer holds the record as the best-selling solo performer of all time?
894	Radiator Springs	Tucumcari, New Mexico, seen on the next slide and located right on America’s main street, is the inspiration for what fictional town?
895	Casper the Friendly Ghost	The first live action movie with a fully computer-generated image as the main character was what film based on a character from Harvey Comics, starred Christina Ricci and Bill Pullman, and was released in the year 1995?
896	Strangled	Myth says that Hercules had to atone for his sins of killing his wife and family by completing twelve labors. The first of these labors included killing an invulnerable lion that terrorized the hills of Nemea, of which he killed said lion by doing what? He probably studied the doings of one George Howard Skub, or to conspiracy theorists, Toby Flenderson…
897	Denver	What city with all four major sports represented has the smallest population?
898	Falcon	The All-Seeing Eye, otherwise known as the Eye of Providence ad the symbol of the Illuminati, is attributed with Horus, the Egyptian god of healing and protection. Horus has the head of what animal, known for its incredible eyesight?
900	Goosebumps	With 62 books in the original series, published from 1992 – 1997, and over 150 books following that, the woman seen here is reading what series?
901	Lionel Richie	Taylor Swift tops the chart for number of times a songwriter’s song has been nominated for song of the year at the Grammy’s, with 7 nominations. Two people follow her with 6 nominations, one being Paul McCartney, and the other being who? Writing songs for himself and Kenny Rogers, this person shares the distinction of having the only song title shared by more than one song of the year nominees, the other being Adele.
902	UMBC retrievers	Gooo Wagner!! Wagner takes on one seed UNC in the first round of March Madness, and the winner will take on *hopefully* Michigan State. A 16-seed has beat a 1 seed twice in history, please name either 16-seed’s mascot.
903	Space Cadet	Preinstalled on the Windows 95 package, the pinball game that swarmed the computers of early 2000s middle school computers was themed what?
904	Alcatraz	What federal building closed on March 21st, 1963, due to high cost of maintenance? It is now run by the National Park Service, and visitors can stroll down its hallways named for famous streets, like Michigan Avenue and Broadway…
905	Lobo	What NCAA tournament team mascot is slang for a timber wolf, or something at the top of the food chain? Said mascot also shares its name with a DC comics anti-hero, described as an interstellar mercenary and bounty hunter.
906	Chip and Dale	Tom Selleck, the lead in the show Magnum PI, and Indiana Jones, lend their looks to what fictional set of brothers? You used to be able to meet these fellows down by the Rivers of America, but now you can meet them just east of Liberty Square.
907	Jennifer Rush and Frankie Goes to Hollywood	The record for most songs to hit number 1 in the same year with the same title is three, with Huey Louis and the News and two other artists in the year 1985 with the song “The Power of Love”. Name one of the other two artsits.
908	Margarita, mimosa, martini, Moscow mule, cosmopolitan	According to ResturantWare, the top 5 most consumed cocktails in the US are what?
909		
910		
911	Chevy Camaro	Hot Wheels toys released in the year 1968, with the first model being what muscle car? If this question was on Jeopardy, I’m sure Optimus Primes right hand man would get it right…
912	Brazil	The Curupira, a mischievous mythological creature from the Tupi culture, has backwards feet, and has lead wanderers astray in the world’s largest forest for centuries. In what country would you find the Curupira?
913	Hard rock	At over 88,000 pieces, the Seminole tribe of Florida owns the largest collection of music memorabilia in the world. What other more well-known name does this organization/collection go by?
914	Smokey Robinson	In an episode of the office, we see Ryan try to show he is “cultured”, when he showed remorse when hearing of what Motown singers passing? Said singer was the lead singer of the Miracles, has a lifetime achievement Grammy award, and had his song “Being with you” hit number 2 in 1981.
915	Artemis	Fittingly, the new NASA missions are named after what Greek goddess of the moon, and the counterpart to the name of the original NASA missions?
916	Luke Wilson	What actor, known for an iconic scene where he would have his arm cut off by Tim Robbins, joined Miller Lite this year for an ad campaign, alongside MLB legends Big Papi and Jorge Posada? I’ll tell yah, I did NOT see that coming…
917	Kit Kat	The night club in the Broadway play Cabaret shares its name with what “have a break” candy bar?
918	French bulldog	According to the American Kennel Club, the most popular dog breed in the US is what breed? It belongs to the non-sporting group at the Westminster dog show, alongside dalmatians, chow chows, and even the extremely rare pink panther…
919	Lance Parrish	Louisiana is the only state in the country that uses what term instead of county for judicial districts? You can ask the home run leader and everyday battery mate from the 1984 Tigers; he may be from there…
920	Twas the night before Christmas	What are the first five words to the most famous poem written by American poet Clement Clark Moore? These five words ring true throughout American culture, and are known by all, including dormant rodents…
921	Ludicrous	The acceleration modes on Tesla Model X’s include chill, standard, sport, insane, and what final mode, that increases peak torque and speed? Don’t go too fast, though, we wouldn’t want you to turn to plaid…
922	Dancing banana	The meme “Peanut Butter Jelly Time” came to fruition on the web in the year 2004. This meme has what type of dancing food item is at the  center of the “PBJT” meme?
923	Willie Nelson, 90	At 92 years old, who is the oldest member of the rock and roll hall of fame that is still living (and touring) today? You may be able to ask Ronald Ulysses Swanson and his excellent rectangle, as I’m sure he’s Always on His Mind…
924	Washington DC	The two highest median income counties in the US, Loudoun County and Falls Church County, are suburbs of what major US city?
925	Chadwick Boseman	The most liked tweet of all time was made by the family members of what deceased actor? Passing in the year 2020 by way of colon cancer, this king had held the cancer diagnosis from the public until he passed.
926	I want to hold your hand	The best-selling Beatles single in the UK is She Loves You. The best-selling Beatles single in the US is Hey Jude. What is the best-selling Beatles single worldwide, and is the song the Beatles sang to end their first appearance on the Ed Sullivan show?
927	Say say say – Michael Jackson and paul mccartney Bills bills bills – destinys child	Turn! Turn! Turn! by the Byrds was the first number one hit to have three words repeated consecutively in the title. Only two other songs have the distinction of hitting number one with three consecutive words repeated, with one being released in the 80s and the other in the 90s. Please name one.
928		
929		
930		
931		
932	Dream a little dream	Performed five times during the Voice’s Blind Auditions, the most popular song that has at least one chair turn on the show is what song, which has over 400 covers to its name? If I was Maxine Mayfield, it’d be my least favorite song…
933	Dr pepper, mt dew, sprite, fanta, sierra mist	Outside of coke, diet coke, Pepsi, and diet Pepsi, please name the top 5 most consumed soft drinks in the us.
934	Emperor Palpatine	There is a great disturbance here at Baynes trivia… last week, the acting world lost Clive Revill, the actor who portrayed what character, in possibly the best film sequel ever released?
935	Boston, MA	In what city would one find the real-life inspiration for the most popular fictional bar of all time? Originally the Bull and Finch Pub, located in Beacon Hill, the bar changed its name in 2002, after closing a deal with NBC.
936	Paw Patrol	Comedian Shane Gillis has a joke stating that what TV show, possibly the most popular kids show right now, is the reason behind the assassination of the leader of ISIS, as he was killed by dogs in helmets?
937	Baseball gloves	Nokona Athletic Goods Company, located in Nocona northwest of Dallas, is the only remaining producer of what sporting good in the US? Known as the best in the business, their peak time of year is late winter and early spring.
938	Watchmen	Dr. Robert Oppenheimer led a secret project that shares its name with part of a comic book character. What team is said comic book character associated with, being both a protagonist and antagonist to the group?
939	Martha’s Vineyard	JFK JR. tragically passed away on July 16, 1999, after his plane crashed on what island? Known for its pristine beaches, vibrant art, and charming towns, it’s the only island in the US that is given the ability to have a possessive apostrophe in its name.
940	Lewis and Clark	After President Jefferson purchased the Louisiana Territory from France in 1803, he commissioned what two people to lead the expedition across the country to the Pacific northwest? Last time I saw them, they were disagreeing behind glass in New York…
941	Bazooka	The type of guy you wanna chew all in my caramel apples… What is the name of the weapon that first utilized the explosion on impact concept for the destruction of tanks in WW2?
942	Yo-yo	If you were to say the term used in the dice game Craps for a role of eleven twice in a row, you’d get what 2002 Toy Hall of Fame inductee, known to be made by a company named Duncan?
943	Tchotchke’s	Jennifer Aniston’s character Joanna in the film Office Space works at a restaurant called what, that forces her to wear at least 15 pieces of “flair”? It shares its name with the Yiddish word that describes small, inexpensive, decorative objects that serve little to no functionality.
944	Josh Groban	What multi-platinum Grammy nominated singer, who got his start standing in for Andrea Bocelli at the 1998 Grammys when he dueted with Celine Dion, is one of the only celebrities to cameo in both The Office and Parks and Recreation?
945	Ireland	What country, located in the northern hemisphere, had to change the visual direction of their Coat of Arms in the early 1900s, because the most valuable brand in said country held the trademark of same logo?
946	Grateful Dead	It’s finally baseball time, which means the Boys of Summer are finally here! If you’re Don Henley, and you’re reminiscing about the Boys of Summer, a sticker dedicated to what band is on the back of your car?
947	Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum	How do ye do, and shake hands? What character duo, one of the six duos that are never seen apart at Disney, first appeared in a book called “Through the Looking Glass”, written in 1871?
948	Yetis	The Utah Hockey Club, the newest expansion team in the four major US sports, has narrowed its new team name decision to two picks: the Mammoth, and the Outlaws. For the longest time, they assumed that what would be their nickname, before a company stepped in? Guess the hockey team wasn’t built for the wild…
949	Holy Grail	What artifact, that is thought to be inside the Basilica of San Isidoro in northern Spain and not in the Canyon of the Crescent Moon, can be found in the song title of a 2013 number one hit?
950	POG’s	What late 20th century toy craze, with lines like Jurassic Park and Nickelodeon, was inspired by a Hawaiian teacher, when he gave orange, grapefruit, and passionfruit juice caps to his students?
951	The Rugrats	What 1998 films soundtrack pulls together one of the best movie soundtrack ensembles ever, with groups like No Doubt, Devo, Lenny Kravitz, Busta Rhymes, and Elvis Costello each singing songs? It is also the first non-Disney animated film to break $100 million at the box office, where everything is bigger, more mysterious, and uncontrollable.
952		
953		
954		
955		
956		
957	Princess Diana	The best-selling non holiday single of all time, Candle in the Wind by Elton John, was dedicated to what icon, who we lost too early in 1997?
958	Pink	What singer, born Alecia Moore in 1979, chose her stage name from the nickname her friends gave her growing up, which they took Steve Buscemi’s character in Reservoir Dogs. What is the more well-known name of this singer?
959	Humpty Dumpty	Digital Underground, a one hit wonder hip-hop group from Oakland formed in 1987, has part of what fictional character’s name in their most well-known song?
960	Brad Paisley	You’ll have to Remind Me, the last change the downtown Nashville “Country Legends” mural saw came in 2020, when Taylor Swift was replaced with what singer? With albums like Wheelhouse and Moonshine in the Trunk, he would be nominated for Best New Artist in 2001 at the Grammy’s.
961	Matchbox 20	What 5-time Grammy nominated band’s name contains part of a toy inducted into the Toy Hall of Fame in 2019? Releasing albums in the early 2000s, they would release a reunion album in 2023, and as Ken Hotate can confirm, white people love said band.
962	Verve	A song by a Michigan formed band and a song by an English alt-rock group hit number 2 and number 5 respectfully on the Billboard top 100 chart at the same time in 1997. What word do these two bands share, which means great energy and enthusiasm?
963	Foo fighters	Ladies and gentlemen, what band, that formed in 1994 and was originally a solo project, took its name from what pilots in WW2 called UFOs? The bands founder chose the name, because he wanted it to sound like the band had multiple members, which at the time, was false.
964	Red Hot Chilli Peppers	John Frusciante, Chad Smith, Anthony Kiedis, and Michael Balzary are most associated with what fruit, native to Central and South America?
965	Halleluiah	What song, originally written in the year 1984, didn’t gain mainstream popularity until a cover was featured in a 2001 film? The song explores the complexities of love and faith and is statistically one of the top five most sung songs on the show The Voice.
966	Buddy Holly	Before Waylon Jennings was the king of outlaw country, he was the bass player for a band called the crickets. Who was the lead singer of this band, who lost his life on Feb 22, 1959, at the age of 22.
967	Fastball	What late 90s band, with a very time appropriate band name, wrote their most popular song about an elderly forgetful couple who went missing from Texas in 1998, only to be found two weeks later dead in Arkansas?
968	Black Crowes	Of the bands featured on the ballot for the Rock N Roll Hall of Fame for 2025, which band, formed in 1984 by two brothers, has the least listens on Spotify when compared to the other nominees? It is also the first band to get a nomination with an animal in its name since John Cougar in 2021.
969	The Chicks	The last time an all-female band won the award for Album of the Year at the Grammys was in the year 2007, when what band won the award? Beating out favorite “Continuum” by John Mayer, the band got their start as a bluegrass band in 1989.
970	Foreigner, james taylor, eddie money, doobie brothers, beach boys	Looking at the non-Michigan residents that have performed the most at Pine Knob, name the 5 acts who have performed the most, using their best-selling album name.
971		
972		
973		
974		
975		
976		
977		
978	SpaghettiOs	A recent Nerdist post revealed that it would take, on average, 8795 cans of what food to write the Lord of the Rings trilogy? Costing a total of $12,225 dollars, one would have over 8 million left over of said food to play with.
979	Ken Jennings	“Nancy Zerg, you are indeed a giant killer!” were the lines spoken by Alex Trebek after she beat what Jeopardy player, the highest earning American game show winner of all time?
980	Marie Antoinette	The 2024 Olympic opening ceremony in Paris featured a French metal band called Gojira, who won a Grammy for their performance. Their set opened with whose decapitated head yelling the words “It’ll be fine, it’ll be fine”?
981	Rhinestone Cowboy	Nudie Cohn, a Ukrainian tailor and fashion designer, started a suit design store in North Hollywood in 1947. Creating suits for notables like Glen Campbell, Gene Autry, Hank Williams, and George Jones, Nudie coined what term, that these singers are attributed with?
982	Warwick Davis	The Leprechaun movie series won the award Chainsaw award for “Worst Film Series Ever” and has multiple series installments with 0% on Rotten Tomatoes. Who plays the title character, who can also be seen at Hogwarts, in the Labyrinth, and on Endor.
983	Centurion	The most prestigious of the American Express cards shares its name with what kind of soldier? A professional officer in Ancient Rome, they were responsible for commanding 100 soldiers and are considered to be the catalyst behind the Roman war machine.
984	Empire of the sun	An Australian electronic duo that has a song on Spotify with over a billion plays and a 1987 film by Steven Spielberg starring Christian Bale and Ben Stiller both share what name?
985	Tour De France	Dude, that’s sick! What major sporting event, one of the most watched annual events in the world, has no official winner from the year 1999 to the year 2005, as of the year 2012?
986	20,000 leagues under the sea	What book, originally published in 1870, has a measurement of distance in its title, equivalent to about 7.5 times the diameter of the earth? The common misconception is that the measurement isn’t physically possible, but the characters aren’t, in reality, going down.
987	A&M	What abbreviation is added to the end of seven Division 1 universities, that have specific backgrounds in farming and engineering?
988	Lotus	Production company Wizards of the Coast, known for creating the game Magic: The Gathering, have outright banned a card with what aquatic plant  in its name? Citing the card’s ability to skew the play environment, the flower can also be found in the name of the hotel where Half Bloods sometimes get stuck.
989	Grotto	Winning the award again in the year 2024, the best beer bar in the state of Michigan, located in Ann Arbor, has what name? It takes its name from a term that means “a small, picturesque cave, usually with water, and is sometimes artificially made”.
990	Scooby Doo	Levels including “A Dark and Stormy Knight”, “Gloom and Doom down in the Tomb”, and “Mind your Manors” can be found in the PS2 game Night of 100 Frights, where you play as what title character?
991	Butler	Located in a state that borders Michigan, and having only 4,500 students, what is the smallest school to ever play for a NCAA National Championship? Defeating VCU in the Final Four, they would end up losing to UConn in the championship game.
992	Don’t worry, be happy	Featured in the films Wall-E, Flushed Away, and Cocktail, what is the only song to reach number one on the Billboard Hot 100 that was recorded without any instruments? Used as George HW Bush campaign song, it also is the only song to win the Song of the Year Grammy that is sung acapella.
993	The Jungle Book	Walt Disney’s last addition to a film that he personally oversaw was the hypnotizing song “Trust in Me”, which can be seen in what 1967 film? Walt would pass from lung cancer in 1966, before the film’s release.
994	Joan of Arc	According to the University of Wisconsin, the woman who is depicted on the most monuments in the US is what non-American woman? Although this woman couldn’t drink, she has dedicated statues in Central Park, Meridian Park DC, and outside of the St Louis Cathedral in New Orleans.
995	Layla, eric Clapton	What song, originally written in 1970, was re-recorded in 1992, and beat out shoe in “Smells Like Teen Spirit” by Nirvana for the award of Best Rock Song of the Year at the Grammys? The song chronicled the singers secret love for George Harrisons wife, Patti Boyd, and when George passed, the bones would fall, and the singer of said song and her would marry.
996	Chad, cuba, fiji, loas, mali, oman, peru, togo	Alongside countries like Iran and Iraq, there are eight countries with 4 letter names. For 10 points each, name 5 of them.
997		
998		
999		
1000	MGM	Leo the lion, the mascot to what movie production company, was nicknamed Lucky Leo, after being involved in a plane crash in 1927? No word on if they’re on good terms with Disney or not…
1001	Roadrunner	A classic antagonistic TV show duo premiered in the year 1949, in a cartoon titled “Fast and Furry-ous”. One half of this duo has the middle name Ethelbert, and the other half is what kind of animal, found in the southwestern part of the US?
1002	Hurricane	What is the name of the cocktail composed of rum, lime juice, orange juice, passion fruit juice, grenadine, and simple syrup? May even be one Luke Comb’s and Bridget Mendler’s favorite drink…
1003	Golden Bear	Six-time Masters champion and entrepreneur Jack Nicklaus has what colorful nickname, which traces its name back to sports commentator Don Ward, who was infatuated with Jack’s blonde hair? His nickname is also lent to his country club, clothing brand, and big box golf club brand.
1004	Royals	What 2014 Grammy award winning song was written after the songwriter saw a photo of George Brett in National Geographic Magazine? This New Zealand born singer became the youngest artist to win Song of the Year, at just the age of 17.
1005	Mad Hatter	What fictional character, created in 1865, was based off a real person named Theophilus Carter, has a storefront in Disneyland, and is also a mad scientist Batman villain, who invents devices that use mind control?
1006	Donald Duck	Before his death, Walt Disney had a handshake agreement with a west coast university, allowing them to use one of his characters as the likeness for their mascot. Which one of the Fab Five is used as said mascot?
1007	Jasper	Located in Alberta west of Edmonton, what is the name of the largest national park in Canada, that is a part of the Canadian Rockies? Known for the Icefield Parkway and Athabasca Falls, the town in which the park takes its name is right in the middle of the park.
1008	Colossus	The most recent episode of the TV show Invincible parodied the common X-Men trope, where Wolverine gets thrown like a baseball at their enemies.  Referred to as the Fastball Special, Logan is the ball, but who is the pitcher?
1009	Atlanta Braves	That’s just Schwell, isn’t it? Being founded in 1871, what is the oldest continuously operating major 4 sports team in the US? Originally known as the Boston Red Stockings, this team would dominate the 1990’s, behind one of the best pitching rotations ever seen, nicknamed “The Big Three”.
1010	Greyhound	What dog breed, originating in the British Isles, is considered the fastest dog breed, having a top speed of 45 MPH? Dani Rojas, Sam Obisanya, and Isacc McAdoo can’t run as fast as their mascot, I’d put money on it…
1011	Colonel	When looking at the US Army and Air Force ranks, what is the highest field grade rank that one can achieve? Directly beneath a Brigadier General, the most well-known of said rank is Harland David Sanders, who was in the US Army from 1906 – 1907.
1012	Kelce Bros	What pair of brothers signed their names on a blank space and purchased a beer brand from Braxton Brewing Co in 2024, located in northern Kentucky? Both Bearcats, they are poised to head to the Hall of Fame in the coming years.
1013	Knight	The original Oscars statue design, which is still in use today, depicts what kind of soldier, standing atop a reel of film?
1014	Billy Goat	When the Chicago Cubs won the 2016 World Series, they had what animal engraved on the inside of their championship rings? The owner of a local pub was very gruff, and cursed the team back in 1945, with the curse finally being lifted in 2016.
1015	Beaver	In the classic film the Lady and the Tramp, what kind of animal, named Mr. Busy, helps lady get the muzzle off her maw?
1016	Lobo	First appearing in 1983, what is the name of the DC interstellar mercenary and bounty hunter from the planet Czarnia? Intended to be a satire of Marvel’s Wolverine, this character will make his big screen debut in 2026, being played by Jason Mamoa.
1017	Highlander	What is the term used for a native of northern Great Britain, dating back to the early 1600s? Revolving around a war heavy clan lifestyle, the name was lent to a 1986 film starring Christopher Lambert, Clancy Brown, and Sean Connery, that spawned 4 sequels.
1018	Stanford, NC State Wolfpack, Orange, fighting irish, fighint Illini, Crimson tide	For ten points each, name the top 6 universities in the Big 4 conferences whos nickname doesn’t end in S.
1019		Illinois	There is only one state in the country with all four directional D1 universities, IE, northern/southern/eastern/western. Using their nicknames, name the midwestern state.
1020	Bar	The biggest song by the 2025 Best New Artist winner at the Grammy’s shares part of its name with what kind of establishment, located on Michigan’s Mackinaw Island?
1021	ESPN 8 the Ocho	Inspired by a 2004 movie, what TV channel premiered in 2017, showcasing sports like air hockey, quidditch, chess boxing, frog jumping, and cherry pit spitting?
1022	Brutus	The great world leader known to all of us as Julius Ceaser was killed on the Senate floor in Rome by his colleagues in 44 BC. The nutty man that headed this assassination had what name, that shares his name with a Big Ten mascot?
1023	Anthrax	Which member of the “Big Four of Thrash Metal” sent a letter to the public in late 2001, saying that they would refuse to change their band name? With albums like “Among the Living” and “Persistence of Time”, the logo of said band is a pentagram.
1024	Garrison	The teacher in the TV show South Park shares his name with what militaristic term? The definition of the term is “a military post or group of troops stationed at a specific location”, usually there to permanently guard said space.
1025	Indian Summer	What is the term used for a warm, calm, and dry spell of weather that occurs in Autumn? Usually occurring in October, it often follows a period of cold that ends the growing season. One may be able to ask the ACM Duo of the Year from 1992 – 2006, they can absolutely tell you…
1026	Steamboat	The renowned cartoon character known as Mickey Mouse first appeared in the year 1928, when he was seen driving what mode of transportation?
1027	Who wants to be a millionaire	Charles Ingram, a former British Army Major, was sentenced to 24 months in 2003 for his involvement in what game shows “coughing scandal”? He used too many “phone a friend’s”, because his in-studio wife would cough, and he would eventually win the grand prize.
1028	Phish	Introduced on March 18, 1997, what is the name of the Ben and Jerry’s chocolate marshmallow caramel phudge ice cream flavor that’s dedicated to a Vermont jam band? They can be seen in the Simpsons episode “Weekend at Burnsie’s” performing their song “Run like an Antelope”.
1029	Katy Perry	An egg laying mammal? A musical egg laying mammal?!? Who was the first female artist to have 5 number 1 hits off the same album? Releasing the album in 2010, it has sold over 12 million copies, and was the first person to achieve the feat since Michael Jackson.
1030	Zax	Master scrabble player Nigel Richards states that the best playable three letter word in the game is what word? The definition of the word is “a small axe used for cutting roof slates”, but also is a Dr Suess character, or the original name of a fast-food restaurant with 941 locations across the southeastern US?
1031	LA Dodgers (trolley)	What major four sports team, that moved cities in 1958, originally had a mode of transportation in front of their team’s name? In the early 1900s, people had to avoid said mode of transportation to get to the team’s home games.
1032	Wizard of Oz	Gone with the Wind beat out what film for Best Picture at the 1940 Oscars ceremony? The film it beat is the only film on AFI’s 100 Years 100 Movies list that is based off a children’s book…
1033	Drift Away	What song, originally made famous by soul singer Dobie Gray in 1972, spent 35 weeks on the charts in 2003 when Kid Rock’s DJ covered it, and is considered by Rolling Stone Magazine as “one of those songs no one can escape”?
1034	Patty Hearst	F Lee Bailey, one of the most high-profile lawyers of all time, represented people such as OJ Simpson and the Boston Strangler in court. What American actress and heir did Bailey also defend, pleading to the jury that a case of Stockholm Syndrome was in effect?
1035	Dirk Nowitzki	With nicknames like Baron Von Slamminstein and the Luftwaffe, what 2011 NBA Finals MVP has what Bleacher Report calls “the Heaviest Championship Ring”? He’d takedown super teams such as the Pau and Kobe Lakers, the Russ Harden Durant Thunder, and the Bosh Wade Lebron Heat.
1036	Gran Torino	What 2008 movie, set in Highland Park, is the highest grossing film set in the state of Michigan? A retired auto worker, he shows the watchers that a man at any age can change their feelings towards others. As the film ends, a character by the name of Thao Vang Lor drives off, up Lake Saint Clair.
1037	Billie Eilish	Think outside the box… Winning their Oscar’s in 2022 and 2024, who is the only person born in the 21st century to take home an Oscar win?
1038	Forrest gump, Godfather, LOTR, Gladiator, Silence of the lambs	For ten points each, name the five Best Picture winners, with the most IMDB and Rotten Tomatoes ratings.
1039		
1040		
1041		
1042	Grand Canyon	Supai, a Native American reservation town located in Arizona, is considered to be the most remote community by the US Department of Agriculture in the lower 48 states. It can be found in the middle of what National Park, where one could maybe see Thelma and Louise’s wrecked car?
1043	Fabulous	The Las Vegas strip is one of the most visited tourist attractions in the US, for good reason. When visiting the city, one would see the famous sign, which reads “Welcome to ___________ Las Vegas”? “Everything’s got to be perfect.” - Sharpay
1044	Minnesota	The Lake of the Woods, the largest freshwater lake outside of the Great Lakes, Voyagers National Park, and an area known as the Boundary Waters make up the northern area of what state?
1045	The Badger	Of the 42 National Historic Sites located in the state of Michigan, the newest to be added to the national registry is located on the west side of the state, and ironically shares its name with what animal?
1046	Oklahoma and Texas	This question gets one big BOOM, SOON! Fitting together perfectly like puzzle pieces, what two states have the longest land border shared between each other, at over 600 miles?
1047	Rambo	According to Glade Magazine and Avant Ski, the most difficult ski run in the US is named after what literary and film character? Located at Crested Butte in Colorado and having an angle of a staggering 55 degrees, I’m sure this ski run is “Your worst nightmare”.
1048	Double rainbow all the way	Paul Vasquez, AKA the Bear, went viral in the year 2010 for filming what phenomena outside his home, above Yosemite National Park? The phenomenon occurs when sunlight reflects twice inside of raindrops, and is sure to leave one saying, “it’s so intense”.
1049	Seattle	Iwoa Takamoto, an animator for Disney and Hanna Barbera in the 50s and 60s, said the exterior for the Skypad apartments on “The Jetsons” was inspired by a landmark in what US city?
1050	Dodge City	What southwestern Kansas dwelling is known as the “Gateway to the Old West”, as it was a popular stomping ground for cowboys and ranchers alike on their way out? Famous for lawman Wyatt Earp, no word on if he made Wayfarer’s or Durango’s, though…
1051	Acadia	What National Park, the first one established east of Mississippi River and originally called Sieur de Monts, is the furthest park from any others? Located 778 miles from the closest park, it is definitely not a northern Michigan golf course.
1052	Mt Whitney	Death Valley, the lowest elevation in the lower 48 states at -282.2 feet below sea level, falls on one side of Inyo County in California. On the other side of the same county is the highest elevation in the lower 48, which is at the top of what mountain? When you believe this, you’ll be as shocked as I.
1053	San Francisco Cable Cars	Opening in 1877 and still functioning today, what attraction holds the distinction of being the first (and only) National Historic Landmark that moves, being dedicated in the year 1964?
1054	Wrigley Field	What National Register of Historic Places location do the Blues Brother’s send the Illinois Nazi’s too, located at 1060 West Addison, Chicago, Ill?
1055	Joshua Tree	A 1986 photoshoot in the Mojave Desert ended up being the cover art for the 1987 U2 Album of the Year winner. What is the “planty” name of the album, that shares its name with the National Park where the photo was taken?
1056	Denver	The 20th row of seats in the upper deck of Coors Field are different colors compared to the rest of the seats in the stadium. In what city would you be able to sit in these peak seats?
1057	John Lennon	A 2.5-acre section of Central Park in NYC is forever dedicated to what peace activist, who died near the area in 1980? Across the street from the famous Dakota apartments, the section of the park is surrounded by red foliage.
1058	Wake Forest	What university, located in a city with the nickname the “Camel City”, is the smallest Power 5 school in terms of enrollment? With an enrollment of less than 10,000, the school is in the best state in terms of college rivalries, according to Bleacher Report.
1059	1776 feet	After its completion in the year 2013, the One World Trade Center reached what symbolic height, making it the seventh tallest building in the world?
1060	Alaska, West Virginia, Nebraska, Wyoming, Deleware	For ten points each, what are the 5 least visited states in the US, in terms of 2024 numbers, when looking at data provided by TripAdvisor and Trip Matador?
1061		
1062		
1063	Drury Lane	According to a traditional nursery rhyme, where does the gentleman baker, referenced in the Shrek films as the creator of ones Gingy and Mongo, live?
1064	Taco Bell	Gidget, the mascot to what brand, appeared as the mom to a character named Bruiser in a 2003 movie? Unfortunately, we lost this icon in the year 2009, at the age of 15.
1065	Hartford Wailers	What is the name of the now defunct NHL team that moved cities in 1997, that, if they didn’t move, would be in the second smallest US sports city, only in front of Green Bay?
1066	Million Dollar Baby	After Michael Scott finishes watching “The Devil Wears Prada” in his office, he goes and watches what 2005 Best Picture Winner, that ends with the main character being killed by the secondary character?
1067	Korn	I can’t imagine a more beautiful thing! The great grandmother in the show Gilmore Girls admits she rents her summer house out to what band, known for their song “Freak on a Leash”?
1068	Makers Mark	What booze brand shares its name with what artists use as their signature, being either a symbol, their name, or initials, in which they use to identify their works?
1069	Frankenstein	An 1818 book written by Englishwomen Mary Shelley is what many call the first true science fiction novel. Subtitled “the Modern Prometheus”, this book is about what title character?
1070	Border Collie	Chaser, a dog from Spartanburg, South Carolina, has the largest tested memory of any non-human animal. Professors at the University of South Carolina Upstate concluded the dog had memorized 1,022 words, 10 times more than the average of 89. What breed of dog was Chaser?
1071	Cannonball Run	Due to the roads being relatively clear, the record for what event was set during the pandemic, at 25 hours and 39 minutes? The couple of Arne Toman and Doug Tabbutt beat out Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise, because Farrah Fawcett was too busy spray painting road signs.
1072	Marquette Golden Eagles	What university, that shares its name with a town in Michigan, was the first coed catholic university in the world, after admitting women in the year 1909? With notable alumni Dwayne Wade and Chris Farley, this private university is only a stone’s throw away from the mitten state.
1073	Iwo Jima	The National Marine Corps War Memorial located in Arlington, Virginia, depicts 7 men climbing Mount Suribachi, which is located on what Pacific Ocean Island, sometimes known for being a post office?
1074	Billabong	Liberated brands, located in Costa Mesa, California, filed for bankruptcy in early February 2025. In the coming months, brands like Roxy, Volcom, Quicksilver, Spyder, and what fifth brand, that shares its name with a river that only runs after rain, will cease to exist?
1075	Phil Collins	What artist spent some time in the air on July 13th, 1985, performing at both Live Aid concerts on the same day? Starting in London, this artist performed and, against all odds, immediately flew to Philadelphia to perform the same set.
1076	In a world	Don LaFontaine, famed voice actor with the nickname “the Voice of God”, lent his voice to over 5,000 film trailers, including Home Alone, Rambo, Rocky, Terminator, and Space Jam. He is mostly known to say what three-word phrase?
1077	Yoo Hoo	What chocolate beverage brand, created in 1928 New Jersey by a guy who really knew how to get his customers attention, used Yankee star Yogi Berra for a 1960s advertising campaign? Yogi would eventually become the companies Vice President and would work with Adam Sandler to get the drink in the film Big Daddy.
1078	Viper (room)	What reptile can be found in the name of the nightclub founded in West Hollywood in 1993 by Johnny Depp? Famous for hosting artists like Tom Petty and Johnny Cash, it was also the place of River Phoenix’s drug overdose in 1993.
1079	Tulips	The Dutch, who often walk on the balls of their feet, are known as having the first economic bubble, which is attributed to the speculation around what item in the late 1600s?
1080	Smokey Bear	The only two people with personalized ZIP codes in the US are the President, and what fictionalized icon? The real one lived from 1950 – 1976 in Washington DC after being rescued from New Mexico, is managed by a US cabinet department, and has the custom ZIP code of 20252.
1081	NHL – Sweden, NBA – France, NFL – Nigeria, MLB – Dominican Republic	Excluding the US and Canada, name the country that contributes the most players to each of the four professional leagues, for 10 points each.
1082		
1084		
1085	Buffalo Bills	What NFL team holds the record for the most consecutive Super Bowl losses, losing each of the games from 1991 – 1994?
1086	Santa Claus	The North American Aerospace Defense Command, known as NORAD, is one of the US’s most important defense organizations. However, their website visits spike during a particular time of year, as they’re more famous for tracking the path of who?
1087	Seattle Mariners	A recent map put out by ESPN shows that every MLB stadium is within 40 miles of a Dunkin Donuts, other than T Mobile Park, for well, reasons… What team plays at T Mobile Park?
1088	Oscar Meyer	A German immigrant with what name founded a meat shop in Chicago with his brothers in the late 1880’s? His company is the dream job of one Carlee Coughlin, with the job title of “hotdogger”.
1089	Electro	A 2001 Spiderman video game’s release had to be delayed, as the final battle of the game occurred on top of the World Trade Center. Shockingly, the final battle had to be relocated, but Spidey still fought what villain, whose real name is Max Dillon?
1090	Kelly Clarkson	What former competition-based TV show winner’s name does Steve Carell scream in 40-Year-Old Virgin, after getting his chest hair ripped off at a waxing salon?
1091	Fiddle	One of the most decorated Grammy winners of all time, Alison Krauss, has 27 Grammy wins. Alongside singing, she famously plays what instrument, that the Devil could’ve laid down on the ground at her feet? “I done told you once, you son of a Bitch, I’m the best there’s ever been"!
1092	Coldplay	The only time that the title of the Song of the Year was in a different language was in the year 2009, when what bands song won the award? The song title translates to “long live life” and is an interpretation of King Louis last speech before his death.
1093	Pearl Jam	The name of what band, who lost the Grammy on Sunday for their album “Dark Matter”, comes directly from the lead singer’s grandmother, who absolutely loved to rock? The lead singer’s great grandpa may also be the boss to a certain sponge….
1094	Fast Car	In an episode of The Office, Michael Scott gives Darrel his top ten Bruce Springsteen songs. One of these songs was what 1988 hit, that was sung by a female, and made a comeback last year at the 2024 Grammys? Its ok, Mike, I didn’t know if she was male or female, either…
1095	Florence and the machine	In one of the most out of left field moments in Grammy history, jazz artist Esperanza Spalding won Best New Artist in the year 2010. She won over acts like Justin Bieber, Drake, Mumford and Sons, and what London based band, who’s early autumn upbeat anthem plays at the end of Guardians of the Galaxy 3?
1096	American idiot	What Grammy winning band inspired musical revolves around a character named Johnny, the self-proclaimed “Jesus of Suburbia”? The show features all the songs from the album of which the show is based on, as well as some from the bands following album, “21st Century Breakdown”.
1097	Steel Drum	What instrument, that traces its origin to the island nation of Trinidad and Tobago in the 1930’s, opens the song “P.I.M.P” by 50 cent?
1098	Steve Irwin	The Australia Zoo, AKA the Ultimate Wildlife Adventure, is located in the town of Beerwah, Queensland. Around the park are giant signs depicting the word “Crikey”, next to photos of what influential activist?
1099	Blues Brothers	What fictious band, founded in 1976, headlined the 1997 Super Bowl, joined by ZZ Top? They finished their set with the song “Gimme Some Lovin” and were surprised on stage by one James Brown for the song.
1100	Tree of life	This past week, Disney World filed a permit to begin the removal of what park staple? The biggest structure of its kind, it stands 145 feet tall, and 165 feet wide.
1101	New Guinea	Pilot Amelia Erhardt was last seen taking off from the city of Lae, on the island of what? Being one of the largest islands in the world, it also is a place where one may go to buy another pet.
1102	Don’t come around here no more – tom petty	What song, written in 1985, chronicles an interaction between the songwriter and Stevie Nicks, where the songwriter woke up at 5 AM to Stevie in his room, trying on her clothes? This encounter occurred after Stevie broke up with Joe Walsh, and the songwriter got inspiration after hearing what Stevie yelled at Joe when he attempted to come pick her up…
1103		
1104		
1105	As you wish	A lowly farm hand by the name of Westley used what three-word phrase instead of “I love you” in the film the Princess Bride, to show his affection for the character Buttercup?
1106	Coming to America	Rolling Stone magazine listed the most iconic fake ads in cinematic history, with an ad for a particular hair product coming in first. In what film would one see this advertisement?
1107	Forrest Gump	Songs by Bob Seger, Willie Nelson, Jackson Browne, Fleetwood Mac, and the Doobie Brothers play during a scene that spans three years, two months, fourteen days, and sixteen hours in what film?
1108	Scarecrow	What Batman rouges gallery member appears as a cameo in the Dark Knight, and reappears in a bigger role in the sequel, as the judge presiding over one of Bane’s crooked courtrooms?
1109	Pirates of the Caribbean	When the park experiences major delays in the film Jurassic Park, Malcolm, played by Jeff Goldblum, refers to what Disney ride, stating that when that ride breaks down, the animatronics don’t eat the tourists?
1110	Regina George	“She’s flawless”, “I heard she has two Fendi purses and a silver Lexus”, “her hair is insured for $10,000”, “John Stamos called her pretty on an airplane”, and “I heard she does car commercials in Japan” are all compliments said about what character?
1111	World Series game at Fenway Park	In the film Good Will Hunting, Robin Williams character Sean Maguire discusses how he has “no regrets”, as he skipped what major event to have a drink with his future wife at the local bar?
1112	Indiana Jones: Temple of Doom, Goonies	Actor Ke Huy Quan had a big career resurfacing after being cast in the film Everything, Everywhere All at Once, and winning an Oscar for his role. He starred in two major movies as a kid, in back-to-back years, before going on a hiatus for a long time. Please name these films.
1113	Orange	According to one Elle Woods in Legally Blonde, what color will never replace pink, saying “whoever said _______ was the new pink was seriously disturbed”?
1114	Monsters, Inc.	After writing “You’ve Got a Friend in Me” for Toy Story, Randy Newman received an Oscar nomination for Best Original Song. Although he didn’t win, he would eventually win for the song “If I Didn’t Have You”. Heard here, what movie features this song?
1115	Library	The first ghost that the Ghostbusters encounter in the film is named Elanor Twitty, also known as the Grey Lady. The trio of Venkman, Spengler, and Stantz encounter her at what kind of establishment?
1116	No Vacancy	Consisting of members named Theo, Spider, Doug, and Neil, what is the name of the band that Jack Black’s character gets kicked out of in the film School of Rock? They must’ve got inspiration when driving through a busy northern MI town in the summer, looking for a hotel…
1117	Back to the future	What Oscar winning movies opening act, that often gets overlooked, revolves around one of the main characters being tracked down by Libyan terrorists, who are out for vengeance?
1118	Dragon	Hayao Miyazaki’s masterpiece known as “Spirited Away” sees the main character, Chihiro, venture into the world of Gods, witches, and spirits. On her adventure, she meets Haku, a river God, who discuses himself as what?
1119	Gwyneth Paltrow	The viral meme “What’s in the Box?!” comes from the movie Se7en, when Brad Pitt’s character yells at Kevin Spacey after he commits murder. He comes to find out that his wife’s head was in the box, played by what peppery actress?
1120	Bruce	Famously, the film “Jaws” only shows the shark near the end of the film, as they constantly had technical difficulties with the mechanical model. What was the name of said model, that inspired writers to use the name in a film 28 years later?
1121	Captain Wedge Antilles	One of the few pilots to survive the battle of Yavin in A New Hope was what man, who shares his name with one of the 6 simple tools? He is close friends with Luke, and fights alongside him in the following battles on Hoth and above Endor.
1122	John Belushi	Only one actor holds the distinction of starring in the top movie at the box office, having the number one album on the billboard charts, and being in the most watched TV show all at the same time. Please name this actor.
1123	Silver linings playbook, American sniper, a star is born, maestro, American hustle	Surprisingly, the person with the most Oscar nominations that isn’t a director, producer, or screenwriter is Bradley Cooper, with 5. For ten points each, name the five movies for which he was nominated, 4 being Best Actor, 1 being Best Supporting Actor.
1124		
1125		
1126		
1127	Dragon	The US hit TV show Shark Tank got its inspiration from a British and Canadian based show, with what beast in the show’s title?
1128	Days of our lives	Friends Joey Tribbiani is cast as one Dr. Drake Ramoray, a neurosurgeon that dies after falling down an elevator shaft. On what long running show does Joey get cast on?
1129	Titanic	The most requested myth by fans in history for the show “MythBusters” was put to the test in 2012. The gang set out to debunk a question that viewers of what movie have had for years, using an 8-foot by 3-foot piece of wood and a river?
1130	Circle of life – lion king	When Lily Tucker-Pritchett is introduced in the pilot for the show Modern Family, Cameron Tucker parodies a famous scene from what movie?
1131	Shrine of the silver monkey	What was the name of the room that appeared on every episode of Legend of the Hidden Temple, in the temple run game at the end of the show?
1132	Animal	Howie Mandel voiced the baby version of what wild and energetic character, who would eventually face off against Questlove, Dave Grohl, and Buddy Rich?
1133	Dragnet	Originally portrayed on radio and TV by Jack Webb, the role of Joe Friday was later filled by Dan Akroyd and Ed O’Neil on what classic NBC series?
1134	Vana White	What 41-year game show “queen and vixen” veteran appeared in the dream of one DJ Tanner, telling her she’d be attending clown college, instead of actually going to college?
1135	Andy Dwyer	I have no idea what I’m doing, but I know I’m doing it really, really well… TV Insider ranked the best television bloopers of all time in 2022, with what characters bit about Kim Kardashian having the best “come”-back story of all time being at the top?
1136	Happy days	Arnold’s Drive In, a greasy spoon hangout located in Milwaukee, is owned and operated by one Mitsumo "Arnold" Takahashi, played by Pat Morita. This business was patroned by the characters on what tv sitcom?
1137	Higglytown heroes	The band “They Might be Giants” is known for singing the intro songs to shows like The Daily Show, Malcolm in the Middle, Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, and what early 2000s children’s show, where the shows characters are shaped like Russian Nesting Dolls?
1138	Champagne wishes and caviar dreams	What phrase, that describes a lavish and extravagant lifestyle, became a cultural touchstone after Robin Leach, the host of a late 80’s and early 90’s documentary series, used it as his signature catchphrase? Also, did you know you could kill your wife if you’re famous?
1139	Rupauls drag race	The most Emmy wins for the Outstanding Host of a Reality TV show is 8, and they belong to the host of what TV show? With episode titles like “Lip Sync LaLaPaRuza Smackdown” and “All Queens Go to Heaven”, the most recent winner of this show was Nymphia Wind…
1140	Martin Freeman	The character of Jim Halpert is based on what actors’ character in the British version of the Office? This actor’s other roles include Bilbo Baggins, Everett Ross, and Dr. Watson.
1141	The jetsons	ABC’s first program broadcast completely in color occurred in the year 1962, when what animated tv show, that only had 24 original episodes, debuted on the network?
1142	Miami Vice	Until Bowers song “Harlem Shake” hit number one in 2013, Jan Hammer had the last number 1 hit that was instrumental. His instrumental song was the theme to what TV show, heard here?
1143	MTV unplugged	The guitar Kurt Cobain used on live TV on Nov 18, 1993, is the most expensive piece of Rock N Roll memorabilia ever sold, selling for $6 million dollars in 2021. On what TV show did he use this guitar, airing five months before his passing?
1144	It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia	With weird word combinations like “milk steak” and “clown baby”, what show holds the record as Wordiest Show of All Time, averaging over 170 words a minute throughout its 16-season run?
1145	James Gandalfini	HBO paid what actor to not take the role of Michael Scott’s replacemenmt, after he was offered to over the show after Michael moved to Denver? They were afraid it would ruin his character, even though his show had been off the air for a while?
1146		
1147		
1148		
1149	Nose	In the Nickelodeon show Double Dare, there was an event titled “Pick It”, where one was tasked with retrieving a flag from an oversized model of body part?
1150	Austria	The Von Trapp brewing company, located at the Trapp Family Lodge in Stowe, Vermont, was started by Johannes von Trapp in 2010. Of the 10 von Trapp kids, he was the only child born in the states, and was born after his family escaped from what country?
1151	Bowser	The last name of the President of Nintendo North America may be the best case of nominative determination ever, as he shares his last name with Mario’s fiercest enemy. What is the last name of this man, who may also love citrus fruit?
1152	Abbey Road	Picture this… the year is 1969. You’re walking down a street in the St. John Wood district of London. You see four guys crossing the street in a straight line, and someone is taking their picture. What is the name of the street you’re on?
1153	Krakatoa	The loudest noise ever recorded occurred in 1883, when what Indonesian stratovolcano erupted? The eruption was heard around the world, and may have even inspired captain magma, all the way at the bottom of the ocean…
1154	Stegosaurus	In July 2024, the most expensive dinosaur skeleton ever sold at Sotheby’s for $44 million dollars. Nicknamed “Apex”, this skeleton was what kind dinosaur, who’s name comes from the Greek meaning “roof lizard”? For the record, I think the nickname Spike would be more appropriate.
1155	Campbells soup	A 1993 commercial showed a young kid coming inside after he had turned into a snowman after spending too much time in the cold. He’d eventually melt, after he sat at his kitchen table to enjoy what?
1156	Waldo	Statistician Randal Olson used a selection algorithm to calculate the best way to find what book character, by starting at the bottom left of the page, making your way to the top right, then heading to the middle?
1157	Rutgers	Cities with a major university are usually synonymous with one another, like UofM in Ann Arbor, MSU in EL, and OU in Columbus. However, some are not as recognizable. What Big Ten university can be found in a town called Piscataway?
1158	Heart of Gold	The spaceship in the popular book Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy shares its name with Neil Young’s best-selling song and only solo number one hit, off his 1972 album Harvest. What is the name of the spaceship?
1159	Nymphs	My name is Tonks, get it right…. what is the name of the deities in Greek myth that are associated with specific natural elements, like trees, rivers, and mountains, and are considered the personification of nature?
1160	Pioneer	Screw you, Skyline! Launched in 1972, the first man made object to achieve the velocity needed to escape the gravitational pull of the Solar System was named what?
1161	7 Nation Army	Jack White, a native of Detroit, had dreamed for what song of his to eventually become a Bond movie theme song? This didn’t hold him back, though, as he’d eventually get his opportunity, writing the theme to Quantum of Solace alongside Alicia Keys.
1162	Chipper Jones	On Tuesday, multiple MLB legends were inducted into the Hall of Fame. The only four players to ever make the Hall and be the number one overall pick are Harold Baynes, Ken Griffey, JR, Joe Mauer, and what 1999 NL MVP, who only ever chopped for one team?
1163	The Eddie	Happening in the coming months, what is the colloquial name of the Big Wave surfing competition, held on the north shore of Oahu, where the winner receives $50,000, a waffle maker, and a giant jawbreaker?
1164	King of the hill	Actor and animator Mike Judge, known for his role in Office Space, was living in Texas when his fence was ripped away by a storm. Neighbors came to help fix the fence, which became the basis for what TV show, that largely revolves around said fence?
1165	Slug (Professor Horace Slughorn and Arthur Slughworth)	What animal, that may have lost something, can be found in the name of the Potions Master at Hogwarts during Harry Potters sixth year, as well as the villain in the film Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory?
1166	Travis Tritt	The Eagles had famously split apart in the year 1980, due to personal issues. They reunited in the year 1994, when what Grammy award winning alliterative artist had the best of intentions, and covered the song “Take It Easy”, with the full band joining him?
1167	SA (Salt Lake, Salem, Sacramento, Santa Fe, Saint Paul)	5 of the 50 state capitals begin with the same two letters… for ten points each, name these capitals.
1168		
1169	Bill Nye, Michelle Yeoh, Bono, Jane Goodall	He doesn’t remember, do you? (medal of freedom photos)
1170	Death star	Judge me by my ability, do you? The Smithsonian Institute released an article in 2012 stating that what fictional thing’s laser beam would realistically require 2x10^32 joules of energy to destroy a planet?
1171	Burt Reynolds	The fictional persona of Turd Ferguson can be seen on SNL’s Celebrity Jeopardy, wearing iconic things like bolo ties and giant yellow cowboy hats. What hazy celebrity is SNL actor Norm McDonald portraying in this role?
1172	Violin	Antonio Stradivari is consistently noted as possibly the best instrument maker of all time. What kind of instrument did he famously craft, with some surviving ones being valued at over $10 million dollars?
1173	Waka Waka	The most viewed music video by a woman on YouTube was made for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. At the time, controversy had arisen, because Shakira, a native Colombian, sang the song, and not an African singer. What is the name of this song, that Pacman could’ve easily been featured on?
1174	Tiffanys	Your momma is so old, her breast milk is powdered! What is the name of the first company in the US to use the Pure Silver Standard, setting the bar for the country at 92% silver in 1837?
1175	Cape Canaveral	Blast off! What specific area in the southeast United States has the appropriate area code of 321?
1176	Puff the magic dragon	Last week, the world lost musician Peter Yarrow, frontman of the folk group Peter, Paul, and Mary. Arguably their most famous hit revolved around what mythical character, that may have dwelled down by the coast?
1177	American Sign Language	Gallaudet University, the only federally charted bilingual school in the country, is credited with creating the now universally used football huddle. The schools two official languages are English and what other language?
1178	Hunchback of Notre Dame	One would find a trio of characters named Laverne, Hugo, and Victor in what Disney Renaissance film?
1179	Moulin Rouge	The title of being the first racially desegregated hotel in the United States belongs to what now shuttered Las Vegas casino? It was named after a Cabaret venue in Paris, known for its eccentric light displays, the birthplace of the provocative dance known as the Can-can, and for being Obi Wan Kenobi’s favorite place.
1180	Solomon Grundy	Sharing his name with a Batman villain, what is the name of the character from an 1842 English nursery rhyme, that was born on a Monday, and died on a Saturday?
1181	Sloppy Joes	Being consistently rated as one of the best bars in the country, what is the name of the local bar in Key West, Florida, known as being the hangout spot for one Ernest Hemingway? Be careful, the entrance may be drenched with ketchup, mustard, and Worcestershire…
1182	Ford Bronco	What was the make and model of the verrrry slow moving car OJ Simpson was cantering down the interstate in on June 17th, 1994?
1183	Blind Melon	What early 90s LA rock bands future was squashed after their lead singer, Shannon Hoon, died by a drug overdose? Ironically, the title of their hit single is very reminiscent of their hometown right about now.
1184	Millenium	The 7 math problems presented by the Clay Mathematics Institute have a million-dollar cash prize if any member of the public were to complete one of them. These problems are named what, that shares its name with part of a rollercoaster at Cedar Point?
1185	Arthur	A nocturnal animal native to sub-Saharan Africa gets its name from the Afrikaans word for “Earth pig”. The main character of what show is this particular species of animal?
1186	Alamo	The rarest patch from WW2 on the market today belonged to a reconnaissance unit in the Pacific, with the group being named after what US landmark? You could ask Pee Wee Herman, his bike may be there.
1187	Doom	What 1993 first person shooter video game, and an inaugural video game hall of fame inductee, got its name from a movie quote spoken by Tom Cruise in the film “The Color of Money”?
1188	Rhianna, ACDC, Celine Dion, Drake, Justin Bieber	After the Beatles, please name the top five selling non British international acts.
1189		
1190		Name of one of Anthony Edward Stark’s AI, name of a steed in a riddle, title of the critically claimed “worst song of all time”
1191		A new deal for Christmas, I think im gonna like it here, I don’t need anything but you, little girls
1192		
1193	Dragons	Many Hong Kong skyscrapers have gaping holes in the middle to allow what mythical beast safe passage to their mountain homes?
1194	Ginger Spice	Ironically, there is no chamomile spice or turmeric spice in the world-renowned Spice Girls. However, there is one member who shares her name with a spice, and her name is?
1195	North Dakota	With underwhelming landmarks like Theodore Roosevelt National Park and Fort Union Trading Post, the least visited state in the 50 United States is what, according to National Geographic? There seems to be people who kidnap their own wife here, too…
1196	Lacrosse	The 2028 Olympics in LA are introducing multiple new sports, like the 2024 London Olympics. The Houghton-Shoshone tribe in upstate New York is petitioning to play what sport under their own flag in 2028?
1197	Les Miserable	Even though she didn’t end up winning the dough, Susan Boyle started off her career singing the song “I Dreamed a Dream” on Britain’s Got Talent. This song comes from what musical?
1198	Shenandoah	What Grammy award winning country band, named after an area in the eastern United States known for its waterfalls and hiking trails, has charting songs like Two Dozen Roses and Sunday in the South?
1199	Kim	If you’re Chad Kroeger, and you happen to be looking at a photograph, what was the name of the first woman you kissed?
1200	Panther	In the movie Anchorman, we see Brian Fantana, played by Paul Rudd, use a cologne to try and entice Veronica Corningstone into sleeping with him. He states that this cologne contains bits of what animal?
1201	Mt. Olympus	The world’s tallest waterslide can be found in Wisconsin Dells, a place known for its extravagant waterparks. Named after the home of the Greek Gods, this slide is called what?
1202	Little boy blue	According to a nursery rhyme, the main character is asleep under a haystack and not tending to his job. What is the name of this character?
1203	Margaritaville	According to Forbes Magazine, what 1977 song ranks as the top grossing song of all time, in terms of overall revenue, which includes licensing deals, merchandise, and storefronts, known for selling lost saltshakers?
1204	San Francisco	What major US city was built on seven adjacent hills, including Mount Davidson, and is considered the hilliest city in the world? It lends the fact that it was built on hills to the name of its NFL team…
1205	This is Spinal Tap	Fittingly, the only movie on IMDB that is ranked out of 11 instead of 10 is what 1984 comedy film, directed by Rob Reiner?
1206	Great Sphynx	Even though it’s not true, legend states that Napoleons troops shot the nose off of what monument in 1801 during his conquest expedition?
1207	Caspian Sea	Caviar, one of the world’s most expensive dishes, comes from sturgeon. Clive Staples Lewis would tell you that over 90% of the world’s caviar is harvested from what lake, the world’s largest lake?
1208	Hocus Pocus	Doug Jones, known for playing non-human roles like Abe-sapien in Hellboy and the Pale man in Pan’s Labyrinth, is possibly the best character actor of all time. In what movie would we find him playing a character named Billy Butcherson, an undead man, who is obsessed with one of the villains?
1209	Laura Dern	What recent academy award winning actress is part of the only family with neighboring stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, being next to her mom and dad? After her biggest role, she ended up dating her costar for 4 years…
1210	Risk, scrabble, trivial pursuit, clue, Catan	After chess and monopoly, name the top 5 best-selling strategy-based board games of all time.
1211		
1212		
1213		
1214		
1215	Schwann’s	Originally called Yelloh!, what food company, known for their iconic yellow truck, announced last week that they are making their final delivery in early November?
1216	San Francisco	On August 29th, 1966, the Beatles held their last concert at Candlestick Park, the home to greats such as Frank Gore and Willie Mays. In what city did the Beatles play their last concert?
1217	Volkswagen	This past summer, I spent my time consulting at River Club Glen Arbor. The owner, Mike Sheldon, was an ad executive for 30 years in LA. His biggest ad involved a kid in a Darth Vader costume, and, according to CBS news, is the best Super Bowl ad of all time. What company was this ad made for?
1218	Ben Stiller	What actor played an arrogant entrepreneur in 2004, an inventing entrepreneur in 2006, and an acting entrepreneur in the Scorcher Hexalogy in 2008?
1219	Yosemite	In 2018, the non-Star Wars documentary “Free Solo” documented Alex Honnold climbing El’ Capitan, a vertical cliff over 7,000 feet tall, without any harness or ropes. In what waterfall filled national park would one find El Capitan?
1220	Beanie Babies	The highest concentration of a single brand being sold on eBay at one time occurred in the late 90s, when what brand held almost 11% of the overall sales on the site?
1221	Area 51	First conceived on Reddit with the tagline “They can’t stop us all”, only 150 of the one million people that signed up showed up to storm what location in 2019? The Air Force had issued a warning to the group, saying “Our bullets go faster than your Naruto run”.
1222	James and the giant peach	What 1961 book is still classified as a children’s book, even with plot lines such as abusive aunts, demons, talking insects, and the main character’s parents getting killed by a rouge rhinoceros?
1223	The electric company	Sharing its name with a space on a monopoly board, what kid show that ran from 1971 – 1977 had a super charged cast, including Gene Wilder, Mel Brooks, Joan Rivers, and Morgan Freeman?
1224	Michael Jackson (wanna be starting something) and Rhianna (please don’t stop the music)	Cameroonian singer Manu Dibango created the hook “Mamma say Mamma ma ma koo sa” in the 1960s. He filed a lawsuit against what two singers in 2009, claiming they had stolen the hook from him without his consent?
1225	Oklahoma City	Coming in at number 20 on the list of most populous US cities, what city is the first on said list to be located in a state that isn’t in the top 25 most populous states?
1226	Jack in the box	What fast food chain, that shares its name with a toy that one of Santa’s helpers may not enjoy making, is the largest restaurant chain in the United States that doesn’t have a location in Michigan?
1227	Porky Pig	The legendary Mel Blanc, known as the “Man of 1000 voices”, has voiced most of the characters in the Loony Toons universe. His tombstone has a three worded phrase that is known to be spoken by what character?
1228	Kelsey Grammer	What beast of an actor is the only person to be nominated for Emmy’s in three different shows, in which he plays the same character? This Seattle based doctor hosts the radio sideshow “The Doctor” on the channel KACL.
1229	Ivan Rodriguez	When looking at the list of Detroit Tigers who have been elected to the hall of fame, the one who has played for the cats most recently is what all a-round player?
1230	Cracker barrel	What restaurant chain, founded in 1969 by Dan Evans, was named after a southern gas station gathering area, the predecessor to the modern-day water cooler? Now, the term is synonyms with being plain, simple, and unsophisticated.
1231	Close encounters of the third kind	Beep beep boop boop! What movie is shown every night, rain or shine, at Devils tower in Wyoming at the base of the tower? This film was registered in the National Film Registry in 2007, was the most successful film in Colombia Pictures history, and can be seen on Coughlin TVs all winter long, with Shawn sleeping on the couch…
1232		
1234	China, India, Mexico, Iran, Russia, Japan	Outside of the continent of Europe, name the 5 countries with the most UNESCO World Cultural sites in the world.
1235	The Monkees	The oldest person to have a song featured on the list of best songs of the 2010’s is the only remaining survivor of what originally fictitious band? You can ask your auntie Grizelda, she’d know the drummer for said band joined up with Death Cab For Cutie for the song “Me and Magdalena”, about two lovers leaving reality.
1236		
1237		
1238		
1239		
1240		
1241	Breaking Bad	The only TV episode with a perfect 10/10 on the database website IMDB is titled “Ozymandias”, where the main character dies from a gunshot wound. One would witness this happen when watching what TV show?
1242	ALS	In 2014, the internet trend known as the Ice Bucket Challenge took the internet by storm, showing up on everyone’s social media feeds. Proceeds from the trend went to research for what ailment?
1243	Shrek	What animated film, released in 2001, was completely done filming, until the main voice actor wanted to scrap the entire script, to completely redo their lines in a Scottish accent? I’m sure the director thought “aw, that’s not very nice”.
1244	Fox	The top-rated playable character in the video game Super Smash Bros Melee is a character introduced by Nintendo in 1993. Named after an animal that makes the sound “hi tee hi tee high tee ho”, what character would one choose if wanting to gain the upper ground in Smash Bros?
1245	Somalia	A 2013 biographical action thriller film nominated for Best Picture and Best Supporting Actor at the Academy Awards primarily takes place off the coast of what country?
1246	Fall out boy – my songs know what you did in the dark	Dance, Dance! The 2013 Victoria Secret Fashion Show was taken by storm when Taylor Swift surprised the crowd and walked the runway in an iconic British flag dress. What alternative rock boy band was originally singing the song that she would eventually take over?
1247	Supersonics	The name LA Clippers is based off boats, and the pacer is based on a car. What other team, which moved and renamed itself in the year 2008, is based off an aircraft, like the New York Jets?
1248	Justin Timberlake	2004 started off with No Strings Attached, as what superstar accidently ripped too much of Janet Jacksons outfit, exposing herself to the millions of viewers?
1249	Avatar: The Last Airbender	Sozen’s Comet is an astrological event that occurs every 100 years and raises the power of a certain subset of people. In what animated show, ranked the number one animated TV show of all time on IMDB, does this event occur?
1250	Oxiclean	Billy Mays here! What brand did the iconic and booming voice of the salesmen Billy Mays represent from the year 2000 till his death in the year 2009?
1251	Inception	For five months before its release, what 2010 films website was blank, with only a top mysteriously spinning on a dark background?
1252	Them crooked vultures	It’s a bird! It’s a plane! It’s a… Spiderman villain? If you were to take the drummer from Nirvana, the bassist from Led Zeppelin, and the guitarist from Queens of the Stone Age, you’d get what 2009 supergroup, who only ever released one album?
1253	Robin Thicke	The transformation of Miley Cyrus had shocked the world, and not in a generally positive way. Her debacle at the 2013 VMAs really took viewers off guard, as she twerked on what singer?
1254	Slenderman	On May 31, 2014, in Waukesha, Wisconsin, Anissa Weier and Morgan Geyser lured their friend into a wooded area of a local park and stabbed her 19 times, trying to appease what fictional character?
1255	Webkinz	One would find characters like Ms. Birdy, Sophie Souffle, Fluffington St Bernard, Quizzly Bear, and Arte Fact while exploring the Town Square on what website?
1256	John C Reily	Before his career took a spicy turn towards comedy, what actor appeared in the top 3 nominated movies at the 2003 Oscars, being Gangs of New York, Chicago, and the Hours?
1257	Gumball machine	According to their archived website, each Blockbuster across the country had what kind of machine towards the front of their stores, near the cash registers?
1258	Jay Z	On the Rolling Stone list of top 100 songs of the 21st century (so far), we see one person appear twice inside the top 10. Once as a feature, which is number one on the list, and the other with a solo song, at number 5, both being released in the year 2003. Please name this artist.
1259	Despicable me, Shrek, ice age, kung fu panda, Madagascar	For 10 points each, name the 5 highest grossing non-Disney animated film franchises.
1260		
1261		
1262		
1263	Home alone 2	A DailyMail article about news broadcaster and media personality Piers Morgan just released last week, saying he has to constantly deny playing the role of the so called “pigeon lady” in what holiday film?
1264	Hulk, Smash!	In the movie Step Brothers, we see Dale get a present from Santa that is superhero adjacent. What is the catchphrase of said superhero?
1265	Wicked witch of the west/Elphaba	What time appropriate “popular” fictional character comes and grabs Ralphie’s cheek while he’s waiting in line for Santa?
1266	Hershey’s	We wish you a Merry Christmas! Airing every holiday season since 1989, what company’s Christmas commercial is the longest running Christmas ad of all time, with the silver one conducting the way?
1267	OK Corral	Doc Holliday, infamous gambler and gunfighter, and his good friend Wyatt Earp, were involved in the shootout at what location, in Tombstone, Arizona?
1268	Turkey	It’s just a little dry, its fine! A recent archeological breakthrough in the Middle East has been thought to be the sarcophagus of Saint Nicholas. Discovered under the church that Byzantine emperor Theodosius II constructed for St. Nick, this tomb was found in what modern day country?
1269	Shitters full	In the movie Christmas Vacation, we see Randy Quaid’s character standing outside the Griswold house in a bathrobe on the side of the road. Why is Uncle Eddie standing on the side of the road?
1270	Screwdriver	In the Office episode titled Moroccan Christmas, we see Michael attempt to bartend the company Christmas party. After giving Meredith a shot with scotch, absinthe, rum, gin, vermouth, triple sec, and 2 packs of Splenda, he gives Jim what handy cocktail, that Michael assumes he invented?
1271	Otters	Jim Henson, creator of the Muppets, had many offshoots of the titular characters, including the 1977 TV special Emmet _____’s Jug Band Christmas, where the characters are all what kind of animal?
1272	Teddy Ruxpin	What is the plush name of the most popular Christmas toy of both 1985 and 1986, known for its terrifying voice after having battery acid leak into its voice box?
1273	Anakin Skywalker	After Jake Lloyd starred in the Christmas movie Jingle All the Way, he starred as the kid version of what character in a 1999 film, who’s character evidently hated sand?
1274	Citizen Kane	The two-movie theory, which was proposed by the NewRockstars YouTube channel, revolves around how each film in Hollywood is either a dream or a puzzle. The two movies the theory presents every film is based on are the Wizard of Oz, being the dream, and what 1941 Christmas adjacent movie, being the puzzle, which is often cited as the greatest film ever made?
1275	Easter Bunny	What legendary character does Oggy Boogie’s henchmen originally capture in Nightmare before Christmas, thinking it was Santa Claus?
1276	Tom Petty	We learn that what artist wants a new Rickenbacker guitar, two Fender Bassmans, a Chuck Berry sound book, and a Xylophone at the end of his Christmas song, Christmas All over Again?
1277	Elephant	In Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer, we see many toys be banished to the Island of Misfit Toys. What kind of animal do we see on the island that is riddled polka dots?
1278	Red Castle	One of the codes used to access the Nakatomi Corporation’s system is Akagi, which translates to what two-word term? One would consider a cinnabar citadel, one, as well.
1279	Mailman	In the stop motion animated special Santa Claus is coming to town, we see Fred Astaire voice SD Kluger, the narrator of the story. What does SD do for the village?
1280	11th street	According to Santa Claus in the movie Elf, he says the original of a certain chain is on 11th street. This restaurant closed in 2013, and the real original one can be found in Little Italy on Prince Street. what is the name of this restaurant chain?
1281	Crayola, Lego, Tonka, Radio Flyer, Lionel, Atari, Nintendo, Hot Wheels/Matchbox, Nerf	For 10 points each, name the five of the nine non-doll brands that have been inducted into the National Toy Hall of Fame.
1282		
1283		
1284		
1285	A Christmas Carol	The book with the most film adaptations is Dracula, with over 60 movies and TV specials. Nipping at its heals, what Christmas story comes in at second, with over 50 movies and TV specials?
1286	Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindee	The first time Homer strangles his son Bart in the Simpsons is in the first episode of season 1, Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire, during the credits, when Bart tries to say the name Atilla the Hun. What Christmas song were the Simpsons singing?
1287	American Airlines	Oh no, the worst possible scenario is upon us… Santa’s sleigh has been destroyed and he can no longer deliver the presents to the children. What airline could he call on to help him, as they have the most planes of any company in the world, aka the largest fleet?
1288	Guitar and Bass/Cello	In the Peanuts special, a Charlie Brown Christmas, we see Charlie Brown take over as director for the Christmas play. We see the gang dancing the night away, as the iconic riff from Schroeder on the piano plays. Two other instruments are being played that we see, played by Pigpen and Snoopy. What two instruments are they playing?
1289	Band Aid	Most people know that the best-selling Christmas song of all time is Bing Crosby’s White Christmas, with Mariah Carey closing in behind him, according to Billboard. But, what supergroup has the highest selling Christmas song for a band? This song, heard here, is labeled “Do They Know It’s Christmas?”, was released in 1984, was written to raise funds for the Ethiopian famine, and consists of legends like George Michael, Bono, Sting, Phil Collins, and Paul McCartney.
1290	Photoshopped him into a photo of her and her two kids with her ex-husband on a ski trip	I got two tickets to paradise!! In the office episode “A Benihana Christmas”, we see Michael buy two tickets to Sandals resort for him and his then girlfriend, aka wife in real life, Carol. Carol breaks up with him before going on the trip, because Michael did what?
1291	Vixen	According to the DC comics website, which one of Santa’s reindeer shares its name with a DC superhero?
1292	Jon Favreau	The person who directed the movie Elf is known to make appearances as small characters in his movies. Who directed the movie Elf, and stars as Doctor Leonardo, and ends up pricking Buddy?
1293	Anthony Hopkins	Heard here, who narrates the 2000 version of Jim Carrey’s How the Grinch Stole Christmas?
1294	Burned hand from the doorknob, iron falling on his face after pulling light switch	Directly after Macauley Culkin’s character Kevin Mcallister shoots both Harry and Marve in the privates and face respectively with his BB gun, they split up, with one trying upstairs and the other trying downstairs. They both succumb to the slippery stairs, with both falling over. What traps do the two bandits face after they overcome the stairs?
1295	Machine gun	In Die Hard, after John kills the first terrorist in Nakatomi Plaza, he acquires what type of weapon?
1296	Aslan	In the South Park 3-part mini movie known as “Imaginationland”, we see Butters get trapped in a mythical realm where the good imaginary characters must fight the bad ones. Butters is being yelled at by an imaginary creature to imagine Santa to the battlefield, as he is the most powerful fighter. What fictional character is yelling at him, and leads all the good imaginary characters?
1297	California	The nation’s Christmas tree, named after famed Civil War officer and former US president Ulysses S Grant, stands tall as the 2nd largest tree in the world. It can be found in King’s Canyon national park, which is located in what state?
1298	Faun	In the pseudo-Christmas movie the Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, we see Lucy end up in Narnia after wandering through the wardrobe. After observing the snowy landscape, she meets Mr. Tumnus, played by James Macavoy in the movie version. What type of mythical creature is Mr. Tumnus?
1299	Lady and the tramp	What non-Pixar Disney film opens up with a scene during Christmas, in which Peace on Earth is playing in the background?
1300	Paul Mccartney – wonderful Christmas time	I was always obsessed with the movie seen here, and being the big music fan that I am, never realized who wrote and sang the song heard in this scene till yesterday. I have always been so enamored by the instruments and noises, and have always attributed the song to this movie, so I overlooked who wrote and sang it.
1301	14	In my dad’s favorite movie of all time, we see Clark Griswold host his family for the holidays. If you were Clark, how many people would you be cooking for for Christmas dinner?
1302	Denny’s	What national chain, that started under the name Danny’s Donuts in Lakewood, California, did Charlie and Scott go eat at in the Santa Claus on Christmas eve, after Scott ruined dinner?
1303	It’s a wonderful life, Miracle on 34th street	Two Christmas movies have been nominated for best picture at the academy awards. Released one year apart, these two films are both rated 94% on Rotten Tomatoes.
1304	Veterans day	Listed alphabetically, the federal US public holidays run alphabetically from Christmas to what holiday?
1305	Rob Schneider	We see Tim Curry play the concierge in Home Alone 2… who plays his henchman, who ends up receiving two pieces of gum as a tip?
1306	Rocking around the Christmas tree	Today is singer, Brenda Lee’s birthday. She is celebrating the second week in a row at number one on the Billboard charts with a holiday rocker, 65 years after its original release in 1958. Knocking Mariah Carey’s All I Want For Christmas is You out of the top spot in December for the first time since 2019, name Brenda Lee’s song which gained popularity after being featured in Home Alone.
1307	Count on, rely on, trust, lead, learn, believe, depend on	For 10 points each, name 5 of the 7 words/phrases Tom Hanks’s conductor punched into tickets in the Polar Express?
1308		
1309	Tim Mcgraw	What country Indian Outlaw stars in the 2009 film “The Blind Side”, alongside Sandra Bullock as her husband? After Thanksgiving dinner is served at the Tuohy household, she goes and turns off football, with her husband yelling “But it’s Thanksgiving!”…
1310	Buffy the vampire slayer	The Scooby Gang is a group formed by monster hunters in the small town of Sunnydale, California. What shows title character heads this group?
1311	Seattle Mariners	In October, we saw Bronny James make his NBA debut for the LA Lakers alongside his pops, Lebron. This was the first time a father son duo played for the same major sports team since a duo played for what team in 1990?
1312	Cass River	Frankenmuth Brewery, the oldest brewery in the state of Michigan, used to be known by what name, which it shared with the name of the river that runs through Frankenmuth?
1313	Sirius	We’ve all got light and dark inside us… the brightest star in the night sky is named what? It also very easily eludes the Ministry of Magic…
1314	Smoke on the water	In 1971 in Montreux, Switzerland, a fan fired a flare gun inside at a Frank Zappa concert, setting the building on fire. This event led to what song being written about the event, as the fire burned on the banks of Lake Geneva? It is also considered one of the easiest Guitar Hero songs of all time.
1315	WKRP in cincinatti	With Ohio based sitcom had the Thanksgiving episode titled “Turkeys Away”, released in 1978? The premise of the episode is that 40 live turkeys were dropped from a helicopter over a shopping mall, plummeting to their death… “As God as my witness, I thought Turkeys could fly”…
1316	Wilson	In the year 2000, the first and only movie Critics Choice Award that has ever been given in the category “Best Inanimate Object” was given to a round object with what name?
1317	451	It was a pleasure to burn… alongside error codes like 404 and 401, what appropriate three-digit error code constitutes that something is blocked due to legal reasons?
1318	Beyonce	In 2009, Kanye West interrupted Taylor Swift’s speech at the VMA’s, after she won the award for Female Video of the Year. He was advocating for who’s video, that would eventually win the award for video of the year later that evening?
1319	Cowabunga	The puppet-based TV show Howdie Doodie introduced what catchphrase into the lexicon of Americans in the late 1940’s? Meaning excitement or exhilaration, one may also hear Raph, Mikey, Donnie, or Leo saying this a lot…
1320	Texas Rangers	The invention of the Colt Patterson repeating revolver allowed what group, that shares its name with a major sports team, the ability to win the small remaining sections of the Wild West?
1321	42	In the 1979 book “Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy”, we learn that the answer to “The ultimate question of life, the universe, and everything else” is what number? One would probably most associate said number with being the only number retired across all the MLB teams…
1322	Burning Man	What famed art-based event takes place every year on the playa of the Black Rock Desert, and is also the largest temporary city in the US, which seems to grow every year?
1323	Peter Pan	With their book written in 1911, what literary main character and eventual Disney movie character was originally written as a serial killer, with the book hinting at killing those that disobeyed the one rule?
1324	Bob Marley	What a Jamming kind of day! The intro song to the PBS kids show Arthur was performed by a band called the Melody Makers. The lead singer is the son of what singer-songwriter, whose sun was always shinning?
1325	Donkey Kong Country	The first expansion land coming to Universal Studios Orlando Nintendo World in 2025 shares its 3-word name with what 1994 video game, that won the award for best video game duo the same year?
1326	Boston	Acorn Street, known for its cobblestone pathways, historic brick row houses, and overall feel of nostalgia, is Americas most photographed street. Located in the Beacon Hill neighborhood, what major US city is home to Acorn Street?
1327	Navajo, Cherokee, Choctaw, Sioux, Chippewa	For ten points each, please name the top 5 most populous native American tribe populations in the US.
1328		
1329		
1330		
1331	Blues Brothers	“It’s 106 miles to Chicago, we got a full tank of gas, half a pack of cigarettes, it’s dark... and we’re wearing sunglasses.” “Hit it!” is an iconic line from what 1980 comedy?
1332	Ray Charles	Who is the oldest singer that we see have a solo in the video for “We are the World”? Being 55 at the time of recording, he outpaced the other older singers, including Willie Nelson and Bob Dylan.
1333	Suge Knight	On September 7th, 1996, Tupac Shakur was shot in Las Vegas in the crossfire of a gang firefight. What American record executive was driving the car?
1334	Beach Boys	Wouldn’t it be nice to win a contest? We see it happen on the Full House episode “Bingo”, when DJ wins two tickets to go see what band? The band ends up inviting the whole family after a dispute, and John Stamos can now be seen touring with the band full time.
1335	Johnathon Taylor Thomas	What actor earned the first ever Nickelodeon Lifetime Achievement Award in 1999, following his portrayal of the character Randy Taylor, son of Scott Calvin?
1336	Prego	Clara Peller, famous for saying the iconic line “Where’s the Beef?”, was fired by Wendy’s after she appeared on a commercial for what brand, where she said the words “I found it!”?
1337	Eric Clapton	Rolling Stone Magazine named a song released in 1991 the saddest song of all time, chronicling what singers 4-year-old son’s tragic death, after he climbed out a high-rise window in New York City?
1338	The Iron Giant	The current lineup of Pixar animators is mostly made up of poached animators from what 1999 sci-fi film, set during the Cold War in the small town of Rockwell, Maine?
1339	Twin Peaks	David Lynch and Mark Frost attempted to make a Marilyn Monroe biopic in the mid 80s, but it fell through. However, a TV show did come of it, also about a young blonde that tragically dies, and eerie secrets coming out after it. Name this show.
1340	Xanadu	John JB Wilson, UCLA graduate and film critic, created the Golden Razzies after viewing what 1980 film? The film garnered multiple Razzie wins, including Worst Picture and Worst Actress, given to Olivia Newton John. The films plot revolves around an artist attracted to a painting that comes to life and ends up building a roller rink because of it.
1341	Bluestreak	Alongside fellow Autobots like Jazz, Rachet, and Sideswipe, the gunner of and alphabetically first member of the team shares its name with the oldest rollercoaster at Cedar Point. Please name this character.
1342	Soundgarden/Audioslave	In a tribute to Andrew Wood, the lead singer of Malfunkshun and Mother Love Bone, the lead singer of what band joined up with Pearl Jam to create the supergroup Temple of the Dog?
1343	Maroon 5	The band Kara’s Flowers appeared on the Beverly Hills, 90210 episode titled “Forgive and Forget”, singing a song of theirs by the same name. This band would eventually change their name and is now one of the biggest acts in the world. What is the current name of this band?
1344	Kenny Loggins	Ranking website Time Out references what musician as the “King of the 80’s movie soundtrack”, as he’s the only one with two songs on their list of best songs written for movies of all time?
1345	Delorean	What Detroit based car company closed its doors in 1982, 3 full years before its only model was featured on screen in the highest grossing film of 1985? Unfortunately, I don’t think the company’s founder really put his mind to it.
1346	Ocarina	One would find what musical instrument in the title of the number one ranked Nintendo video game of the 1990s?
1347	You can’t do that on television	What sketch comedy show, that began in 1981 and ran for 7 seasons, was the first time Nickelodeon introduced the action of sliming someone? All I can say, don’t ask for water…
1348	Sailing by Christopher Cross	From the year 1980 to the year 1999, only one song with a one-word title took home the title of Song of the Year. Occurring in the early 80s, what song took home the hardware, probably because it’s not too far from paradise?
1349	Adam Sandler, Robert Downey Jr, Julia louis Dreyfus, dan Akroyd, Eddie murphy	Parade.com just released an article ranking all the SNL alums in terms of net worth. For ten points each, name the 5 wealthiest 80s and 90s SNL cast members.
1350		
1351		
1352		
1353	Kardashians	The statement “you don’t act, you don’t sing, you don’t dance, you don’t really have any talent” was spoken by Barbara Walters in a 2011 interview when she was interviewing what family?
1354	Brain Freeze	What two-word ailment, with the game piece shaped like a post dinner treat, was added to the game Operation in 2004 after a fan vote?
1355	MTV cribs	The phrase “This is where the magic happens” was spoken first by New Kids on the Block member Joey Mcintyre, when he was being interviewed on what early reality TV show?
1356	Dark horse	The publishing company behind graphic novels like 300, The Mask, Hell Boy, and Sin City shares its name with what southern Michigan brewery? With beers like Crooked Tree IPA and Plead the 5th stout, this brewery is known for its obscene number of mugs hanging from the ceiling.
1357	Wolverine	Canada’s highest point can be found on the west side of Kluane National Park, on the border of the Yukon and Alaska. The peak itself shares its name with what Canadian X-Men?
1358	Spuds Mackenzie	This past week, the sports world lost Ben Herbstreit, the golden retriever that belonged to sports commentator Kirk Herbstreit. Possibly the last time we lost a man’s best friend so close to our hearts was when we lost what brand mascot to kidney failure in 1993?
1359	Blue Suede Shoes	If you happen to be Marc Cohn, and you’re going to be going walking in Tennessee’s second most populous city, you would probably wear what kind of footwear?
1360	Walkie talkie	The Motorola SCR 300, first produced in direct command of the US Signal Corps in 1942, was the first communication device to go by what nickname?
1361	Saugatuck	The ghost town of Singapore, a lost logging town on the west side of the state of Michigan near the banks of the Kalamazoo River, can be found under the sand dunes named for what closest town?
1362	Prince John	Disney’s Villainous board game, first released in 2018, centers around a players villain trying to complete challenges before the others in order to win. The original set of 6 villains included Captain Hook, Jafar, Maleficent, Queen of Hearts, Ursala, and what thumb sucking lion?
1363	Pretty Woman	What 1990 film had the title “3000” before the director changed it, thinking it sounded too much like a sci fi film? He would give it a new name, which came from a song sung by one of the members of the supergroup Traveling Wilburys.
1364	Loch Ness Monster	“The Surgeons Photograph”, a black and white photo taken in 1934 in northern Scotland, was the first photo reportedly taken of what beast?
1365	John Lennon	The 2024 Grammy nominations were announced last week, with Record of the Year nominations including songs by Beyonce, Sabrina Carpenter, and Kendrick Lamar. However, a newly released song titled “Now and Then” was nominated, even though it was written by what person, that has been dead for over 40 years?
1366	Wimbledon	One of the oldest traditions in sports that is still enforced today is the requirement of all athletes to wear white at what annual competition?
1367	Shelby	Elanor, the car used in the Nic Cage film “Gone in 60 Seconds”, is a year 1967 GT500. What is the model of this car, that shares its name with another woman’s first name?
1368	Kokomo	What song, released in 1988, features 11 places in the lyrics that actually exist, all while the title of the song is a fictionalized place that we are led to believe sits off the southern US?
1369	Hell’s Kitchen	The dramatic violin-esque noise, heard here, is played on an instrument known as a waterphone. This iconic noise can be traced back to what TV show, that shares its name with a central New York City neighborhood?
1370	Crosby, stills, Nash, Young	You may want to Teach Your Children that the only band inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame that sees all four of its members also inducted when they were apart of different bands was what group? The other bands that the group members were apart of were the Byrds, the Hollies, and Buffalo Springfield.
1371	Gala, Honeycrisp, red and yellow delicious, fuji	Michigan ranks third in apple production behind Washington and New York. For 10 points each, name the top 5 most grown apple varieties in Michigan.
1372		
1373		
1374		
1375		
1376		
1377	Moon	First African American quarterback inducted to the National Football League Hall of Fame, Number 2 on the Rolling Stone Magazine list of greatest drummers of all time, one hit wonder star with the song “Love me sexy”
1378	Independence day	Given the roles from different movies seen here, what movie do all four of the actors who portray these characters appear in?
1379	Tom	Picture this. It’s a sunny day outside, the internet is young and fresh, and you just made your first Myspace account. What was your first friend’s name?
1380	Rod Stewart	On New Years Eve in 1994, what artist set the record for the largest concert ever attended, with 3.5 million attendees, at Copacabana Beach, Rio De Jannero, finishing with his cover of Sutherland Brothers “Sailing”?
1381	Bad bunny	The most streamed artist of 2020, 2021, and 2022 on Spotify was all the same person. Please name this artist, who was the first non-English speaking artist to hold the title of most streamed artist.
1382	Clark Gable	Adjusted for inflation, the highest grossing movie of all time is Gone With the Wind. Please name the lead actor for the movie, seen here.
1383	Shel Silverstein	Johnny Cash’s song “A boy named blue” was written by an American author, who mostly focused on kids’ books, including Falling Up, The Missing Piece, and A Light in the Attic. Who wrote the song for Johnny Cash?
1384	Ashlee Simpson	In 2004, who famously ruined their career playing on SNL, lip syncing, with the band playing the wrong song?
1385	joe DiMaggio	If you’re Madonna, and you’re Voguing, who is the only non-acting celebrity mentioned?
1386	Kobe Bryant 2020, Heath Ledger 2008	Of the celebrities seen here on screen, all perished in the years 2010-2019, other than 2. Name them.
1387	Oliver and Co	In what Disney animated film would you hear the song why should I worry by Billy Joel?
1388	Kylie Jenner, Dwayne Johnson, Howard Stern	The Forbes list of top 10 wealthiest celebrities includes one woman, at number 1, one actor, at number 10, and one person over the age of 60, at number 8. Name these celebrities.
1389	Neopets	Webkinz, one of the most trend heavy fads of the 21st century, comprised of an online world where you could bring your stuffed animal to life. Their biggest competitor, which revolved around the same premise, was called what, consisting of pet names like Grundo, Aisha, and JubJub?
1390	Graceland	USA today ranked the most “American” pop culture tourist attractions in the USA, with most of them being on a coast. Lady Liberty, Golden Gate Bridge, the Los Angeles walk of fame, and the Hollywood sign are all in the top 5, along with one spot not on a coast. What spot is this?
1391	TLC	It is well known that the Backstreet Boys and Spice Girls are the top selling boy and girl bands from the 90s. Music fans would think that NSYNC would be number 2 on the boy side, and they’d be right, but who is NO 2 on the girls side?
1392	Jim Carrey	What actor played a supernatural being with help from Loki in 1994, a private eye in 1994, and a possibly delusional elephant in 2008?
1393	Jason Mraz	What singer, with albums such as “Waiting for my rocket to come”, “Love is a four letter word”, and “ Mr. A-Z” also doubles as an avocado farmer, being the sole supplier of avocados to such places as Chipotle?
1394	Howard the Duck	1. The Marvel Cinematic Universe has really taken movie goers by storm ever since Ion Man graced the big screen in 2008. Released in 1986, what was the first full length feature film released based off a marvel character? At this point, said character has only made brief cameo apperances in the MCU…
1395	Kurt Cobain	2. Arguably the most expensive piece of music memorabilia ever sold was a guitar used by a gentleman on MTV unplugged in 1993, selling for over $8 million dollars. The reason this piece fetched such a high price was because this was the last live performance he’d ever do on screen, before dying months later. Name the gentleman who played this guitar.
1396	Bonnie and Clyde	3. The fiasco that dealt with La La Land and Moonlight being mixed up at the academy awards is one that will go down in the history books. The people who announced the award, Warren Beaty and Faye Dunaway, played what famous duo on screen?
1397	Otis Redding	4. Rolling Stone magazine’s top song of all time is Aretha Franklin’s “Respect”. However, not many people know this is actually a cover. Aretha covered this song in the same year the person who originally recorded it died in a plane crash, in 1967. Who originally sang and recorded this song?
1398	Woodstock	Max Yasgur, a native of southern New York, was an unknown and humble farmer until what 1969 music festival was held on his 600-acre farm, after which he became a local celebrity?
1399	Valkyrie	Last night, the New York Liberty took home the WNBA trophy after beating the Lynx. The newest WNBA expansion team takes the court next season in San Francisco, with their mascot being named after what mythological woman? These women served the god Odin, are known to be formidable warriors, and may even be played by one Tessa Thompson.
1400	Del Taco	In March 2022, the restaurant chain Jack in the Box acquired what other major chain, with over 600 locations? Known for fast casual Mexican American food, this chain was known to occasionally have free shavacado…
1401	Married with children	For eleven seasons, “Gary’s Shoes and Accessories for Todays Women” provided the income for the family on what sitcom?
1402	Free Fallin’	Reseda, Ventura, the Valley, and Mulholland are all references to the LA area on what opening track for the 1989 album Full Moon Fever? This singers End of the Line came in 2017, when he died of an overdose.
1403	Diary of a wimpy kid, goosebumps	Two of the four best-selling book series of all-time are still being written today, one with 19 installments, and the other with 62. Please name either of these two series, and for a bonus 5 points, name the other.
1404	Motorcycles	When looking at large events that occur in small towns, none are bigger than the fest that takes place in Sturgis, South Dakota each August. Over half a million people venture to this town of less than 10,000 on what type of transportation?
1405	The north face	Founded in San Francisco in 1968, what company’s logo was designed to look like the Half Dome rock formation in Yosemite National Park, seen here, that happens to face a certain direction?
1406	Buster Posey	Yankee Aaron Judge will face off against Dodger Shohei Ohtani in the upcoming MLB World Series. This is the first time two former league MVP’s will face off against each other since the 2012 World Series, when Miguel Cabrera went up against what 2012 NL MVP, with the first name Gerald?
1407	Michael Jackson	In 1995, London Bridge had to be brought up so a large sculpture of what kingly artist could float through, to celebrate the release of his album HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I?
1408	Navajo	During World War 2, US Marines in the Pacific theater preferred to use what ancient language that is still spoken in the southwest US to transmit codes? They used this language to ensure no spies could easily break the codes, as it’s rarely spoken outside the nation…
1409	Minotaur	The Aegean Sea, that separates Greece and Turkey, takes its name from the mythical king of Athens, king Aegeus. He drowned himself in the sea after his son, Theseus, was thought to be killed by what beast, known to roam the legendary Labyrinth?
1410	Fox and the hound	Mickey Rooney and Kurt Russel voice the main characters in what early 80’s Disney movie, in which Legendary director Tim Burton got his start in animation on, where he animated the character Vixey?
1411	La Bamba	Coming in at number 346 on the Rolling Stone list of top 500 songs of all time, what song, released in 1958, is the only song to make the list not sung in the English language? The singer would pass away one year after the song released, at the age of 17.
1412	Blue Jackets	What pro sports team located in Ohio’s biggest city gets its name from a fan poll saying that they should honor their states contribution to the Union efforts in the Civil War?
1413	The Rocketeer	Ranked consistently at the top of lists of superhero movies that are closest to the source material, what non-Marvel/DC movie, released in 1991, stars Billy Campbell, Jennifer Connelly, and Timothy Dalton? I cannot confirm, but their soundtrack may have been produced by the Far East Movement…
1414		
1415		
1416	Walton	For four straight years in the early 2000s, 5 of the 10 wealthiest people in the world had what same last name, according to Forbes?
1417	Bob seger and the silver bullet band, Alvin and the chipmunks, Earth wind and fire, Kool and the gang, Tom petty and the heartbreakers,	Crosby stills and nash, Franki valli and the four seasons	There are 7 bands on the Hollywood Walk of Fame with the word or symbol &. For 10 points each, name up to 5.
1418		
1419		
1420	Clowns	In the fall of 2016, a major internet trend revolved around people wearing what type of costume on the side of roads at night, slowing down and scaring cars?
1421	Winchester	Known as the “Mystery House”, the house that belonged to the former heiress of what company is considered the most haunted house in the United States? With stairs that lead to nowhere, a door that opens to a 30-foot fall, and hallways that go in circles, this house shot to the top of lists of haunted places after Ghost Adventures visited in season 7.
1422	Tiptoe through the tulips	What song, recorded by American (and not Dutch) musician Tiny Tim, is associated with the Lipstick-Face Demon in the movie Insidious?
1423	Coney Island	The sequel to The Phantom of the Opera, Love Never Dies, follows the main character, Christina Daae, across the pond to the US. She would be contracted to perform at Phantasma, a new attraction at what southern New York attraction area?
1424	Black cat – Janet Jackson, Cats in the cradle – Harry chapin	There are no songs that have hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 with the word “dog” in the title. However, there have been two songs with the word “cat”. Name either for full points.
1425	Bathroom	In the first Saw trap we ever see, two men, Lawrence and Adam, are trapped and tested in what type of room?
1426	Captain Cutler	In the Scooby Doo 2: Monsters Unleashed; we see the gang go up against multiple different monsters that have “come alive”. After they get exonerated from their headquarters in Coolsville, they head to their old treehouse HQ, where they get attacked with harpoons by what ghost?
1427	A quarter	In the sequence in which we hear the Peanuts group out trick or treating, we hear most of them get candy, other than Charlie Brown. However, one of the other characters besides Charlie Brown doesn’t get candy. What does he get?
1428	Emily Osment	What future Disney Channel star and younger sister of the actor in the highest grossing ghost move of all time appears in the Friends episode “The One with the Halloween Party”? She is given a check by Rachel saying “cash” after they run out of candy…
1429	Anton Chigurh, No country for old men	The Journal of Psychology released an article stating that what 2000s Oscar winning performance of a serial killer devoid of conscious, remorse, and compassion, is the most realistic depiction of a psychopath in film history?
1430	Catherine O’Hara	The characters of Lock, Shock, and Barrel in Nightmare before Christmas are voiced by Paul Ruebens, Danny Elfman, and what Halloween classic actress? She probably RSVP’d to the opening night of the movie as “pending” …
1431	Washington	Gary Ridgway, AKA the Green River Killer and the most prolific American serial killer alive today, has confessed to 49 murders, with the number estimated up to 80 victims. He conducted his killing spree in what always verdant state, which has possibly one school named after him, where one Carly Shay, Sam Puckett, and Orenthal Gibson attended?
1432	Horses	The Stable Ski Shop, located in downtown Saginaw, is considered by many to be the most haunted place in the city of Saginaw. Ghost stories of the Stable Boy and the hay loft are told by locals, as the Stable was a funeral home for what kind of animal before becoming a sporting goods store?
1433	Tangerine	The iconic movie Ghostbusters released a drink for a marketing campaign to go along with the film, known as Ecto Cooler, with Slimer as the mascot. Made by Hi-C, this drinks main fruit taste and additive was what fruit?
1434	Creature from the black lagoon	Released in 1954, what classic movie monster’s appearance is based off the head of the Oscar statuette? The movie’s plot revolves around a woman being abducted by the creature, the men in her group pursuing her, and then the men shooting the monster, with the monster retreating. Come to find out, the monster is Phil Dunphy’s arch nemesis…
1435	I put a spell on you	What song, originally written by Screamin Jay Hawkins in 1956, has been covered by the likes of Annie Lennox, Creedence Clearwater Revival, and even was sung at the Salem Old Town Hall in 1993? It is the only song to crack the Rolling Stone list of top 500 songs of all time that is associated with Halloween…
1436	Boris Karloff	In 1997, the US postal service released five stamps that featured classic movie monsters. These monsters included Frankenstein, Phantom of the Opera, Wolfman, the Mummy, and Dracula. One actor played the first on screen role for two of these monsters. Name this actor.
1437	San Antonio, New Orleans, Salem, Gettysburg, Savannah	For ten points each, name the top 5 most haunted cities in the US, according to a recent CNBC article. All five fall in different states.
1438		
1439		
1440		
1441	Dumbo	Only fools would know that the only Disney animated feature where the main title character does not speak is what?
1442	Unicorn	In the movie Despicable Me, we see the most adorable little girl Agnes scream “It’s so fluffy, I’m gonna die!”. What type of creature is the stuffed animal?
1443	Bad reputation by Joan Jett, Livin la vida loca in shrek 2, gingerbread sings	Shrek is known for its plentiful popular songs, like All Star by Smash Mouth and I’m a Believer by the Monkees. What song plays in the background during Shrek’s fight scene in the arena in front of Lord Farquaad as he dismantles a handful of knights?
1444	Bomb Voyage	What is the punny name of the first enemy we meet in the opening scene of the Incredibles?
1445	Dodo bird	In the movie Ice Age, we see the team trying to find food for the little baby that they’re taking care of. They end up finding watermelon, but in the meantime, seem to start the excitation process of what creature?
1446	Sorcerer’s Apprentice	In the 1940 Disney animated film Fantasia, we see Mickey conduct an 8-minute segment where brooms and buckets become musically inclined. What is the name of this famous segment?
1447	Jazz	In the Bee movie, we see Barry end up in the apartment of Vanessa Bloome. Before he shows that he can speak, he practices by pseudo-asking if Vanessa likes what type of music?
1448	Phantasm	In Batman’s first animated movie, released in 1993, we see him take down what villain, described as a murderous vigilante, who took on the role after her dad was murdered?
1449	Prince of Egypt	The only song from an animated movie to win best song at the Oscars that is not from a Disney property is called “When you Believe”, heard here, and comes from what movie?
1450	Paris to the Louvre to see the Mona Lisa	In the movie Loony Toons: Back in Action, Daffy and DJ, played by Brendan Frasier, obtain a playing card which is supposed to lead them to a location. The hint received with the playing card is “The window into what lies behind her smile”. Where does this hint take them?
1451	5	In the Lego Movie, we meet a flurry of “Master Builders”, or characters that have the ability to build whatever they’d like without using instructions. These builders are all over the board… mostly fictional characters like Superman, Gandalf, and Speed Racer. There are five real life people who are shown to be Master Builders. Please name one.
1452	Scottish	In the movie Open Season, we watch Boog become accustom to the ways of the forest with his new friend Elliot. We meet an army of squirrels along the way, who threaten to fight Boog. What type of accent do these squirrels have?
1453	Mint chocolate chip	In the movie version of Lilo and Stitch, we see a large shirtless man with a tank top tan get his ice cream ruined three different times. What type of ice cream was he eating?
1454	Porcupine	Along with RJ the racoon, Verne the turtle, Hammy the squirrel, Stella the skunk, and Ozzie and Heather the opossum, what other type of animal joins the gang in Over the Hedge?
1455	Dancing with myself by Eddie money	In the movie Flushed Away, we see Roddy, the main character, get left alone in the beginning of the movie. He has obviously done this before, as he escapes his cage and has a fiesta inside the house, including golf and movies. He does all of that after turning what song on his jukebox?
1456	Box of Scooby snax	In Scooby Doo and the Cyber Chase, we see the gang get sucked into a video game, and have to take on the Phantom Virus. They eventually beat the virus by finding what item, and winning the game?
1457		
1458	Bathhouse	Hayao Miyazaki’s masterpiece known as Spirited Away is about a 10 year old named Chihiro, whose parents get turned into pigs by a mystical spirit. In order to get her parents back to their original form, she must work at Yubaba’s establishment, which is what type of establishment?
1459		
1460		
1461	Forever by Chris Brown	What 2008 song that hit number 2 on the Billboard charts do the members of Dunder Mifflin dance down the aisle to at Jim and Pam’s wedding?
1462	Holy grail	After Jim begins working in Philadelphia, we see Dwight find “The Dunder Code” in a cabinet near the accounting department, an old prank Jim had completely forgotten about. This prank was to send Dwight on a quest for what artifact, probably guarded by one of three brothers?
1463	Hooters	Michael’s end goal for the “Casino Night” that they’re hosting at DM is for the Boy Scouts to be on site to accept a giant check. Toby shuts this idea down, as it’s a school night, held in a dangerous warehouse, and because what restaurant is catering?
1464	Charlie Chaplin	While Pam is in art school in NYC, Michael get her a job at corporate. During Halloween, we see her dress as what British comic, considered one of the film industry’s most important figures?
1465	Glee	In the season 7 episode titled “Viewing Party”, people venture over to Gabe’s house to have a watch party of what show, that had 6 seasons from 2009 – 2015?
1466	Table Tennis	Hanging in Dwight’s room are life sized posters depicting athletes from what sport? He probably got them the first time he left Pennsylvania, and traveled to Lausanne, Switzerland…
1467	Bruce Springsteen	When the office was robbed, with things being stolen like the security tapes, the boss Michael set out to have an auction to raise money for those affected. He tells everyone he donated two tickets to what singer’s concert, which he eventually admits were fake?
1468	Gabe and Ryan	We all know that Robert California has some crazy ambitions. To highlight this, he strips nude in front of the office and jumps into his pool at the work party. What two staff members proceed to follow his lead, stripping and jumping?
1469	Kevin Malone	In the cold open known as “A Quiet Place”, ironically, Jim shows us that the record for the longest silent streak in the office is currently taking place and is at 14 minutes. Who eventually goes on to break the streak of silence?
1470	IT Guy	Glasses, Turban, Ear hair, Fatty 3, Shorts, Fatty 2, Lozenge, and Fatso are all nicknames of people who have held what consulting role for DM?
1471	Knights of the night	The words “We are unarmed” can be found written in reflective tape on the backs of what Scranton crime fighting group?
1472	Clarice	In the iconic scene known as “First Aid Fail”, we see Dwight cut the face off the dummy and proceeds to wear it. After he does that, he says what name, which some think is synonymous with this time of year?
1473	Kate Middleton	In the cold open where we see Andy prescreen Halloween costumes, we see to characters want to dress up as the same public figure. What public figure do these employees want to dress as?
1474	Lighthouse	Stanley states that his dream is to live at the top of what, that he can launch into space at a moment’s notice by pressing a button?
1475	Sex with a terrorist	Alongside things like “huge gut” and “shrimpy”, what four-word phrase does Meredith write on the Do Not Mock board in the conference room, as she assumes it will eventually come out?
1476	Drift Away	What song does Andy start singing acapella style on his car ride with Jim after Jim asks him to turn on some music?
1477	dogs, cats, porcupine, bat, rat, horse, fish	Other than Jo’s dogs and Angela’s cats, there are 5 animals that appear on screen in the office. For ten points each, name them.
1478	Jim Morrison	When Robert California is on the phone with Andy Bernard, he tries to intimidate him by telling him he doesn’t even know his real name, then proceeds to call himself a nickname that is shared by what famous musician, and member of the “27” club?
1479		
1480	1001 Arabian nights	What is the colloquial name of the collection of Middle Eastern folktales compiled in the Arabic language? Written in the 12th century, these stories were told from the perspective of queen Scheherazade, in fear that if she didn’t tell her husband a new story every morning, he would kill her.
1481	Franki Valli	Who wrote and performed a song dedicated to one of his bandmates and the night he courted his wife, which took place around Christmas time in the year MLK made his famous “I Have a Dream” speech, JFK was assassinated, and the beginning of “Beatlemania”?
1482	Stephen Spielberg	In front of God, who holds the title of being the most thanked person at the Oscar podium in thank you speeches since the inception of the ceremony? The speech givers should take a hint, too, as the last name of the most thanked person means “watchmaker” in German. Man, that ceremony is already long enough!
1483	2001	The Broadway show “Come From Away” is based off of real life events that occurred in the town of Gander, Newfoundland, Canada, after the small town of 11,000 had to take in roughly 7,000 stranded people. This event occurred in what year?
1484	Big Boy	Mike Becker founded the company Funko Pops under the original name Wacky Wobbler in the year 1998. The first Funko/Wobbler ever produced was a bobblehead of the mascot of what food chain? With only 61 remaining in the United States, 51 happen to be located right here in the Mitten State.
1485	Gilgamesh	What is the name of the world’s first action hero, as he is depicted overpowering a lion in an eighth century statue located in Iraq? Known in Marvel comics originally as “the Forgotten One”, he possesses superhuman strength and immortality, aka the ability to live eternally…
1486	Arkansas	Superior Bathhouse brewery is the only brewery to be situated inside of a national park. It is also the only brewery in the world to use thermal spring water as its main ingredient. Located inside Hot Springs National Park, in what state would you find the Superior Bathhouse brewery, and its beer made from the rings of fire below?
1487	The Black Cauldron	What 1985 Disney movie was the first animated Disney movie to receive a PG rating? Loosely based off The Chronicles of Prydain, a set of five novels based on Welsh mythology, the movie was rated PG due to violent scenes and frightening scares, according to IMDB.
1488	Brazil	In front of countries like Indonesia, China, and Mexico, what country is at the forefront of biodiversity on planet Earth, with over 3 million species living within its borders?
1489	Bono	Taylor Swift won TIME’s Person of the Year in 2023, the first time a non-politician or business owner had won since the year 2005, when the “Good Samaritans” won the award, in support of LiveAid and Africa. What celebrity represented the “Good Samaritans”, as this person organized the LiveAid benefit concert, and joined Paul McCartney on stage to open the concert with the songs Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band, Beautiful Day, and Blackbird?
1490	Geronimo	What children’s book title character, with book names such as “The Phantom of the Subway and “Who Stole the Mona Lisa?”, shares his name with an Apache military leader and medicine man from Oklahoma, that really enjoys jumping off high places?
1491	Prickly pear	For thousands of years, the Tohono O’odham people of the Sonoran Desert have been the only people legally allowed to harvest what fruit, which is otherwise illegal to harvest in other areas of the United States?
1492	Dogman	Many states have urban legends, including the New Jersey Devil, the Ohio Moth Man, and the Minnesota Wendigo, but Michigan has what? Said to stand on its hind legs at over 7 foot tall, and appear in years that end in 7, this beast has been “spotted” near the Traverse City area, as well as Charlevoix and Petoskey.
1493	Osprey	The Seattle Seahawks logo exhibits a “Seahawk”, which, when looking at the animal kingdom, doesn’t exist. However, the bird their logo depicts does exist, and is described as a small hunting bird, and is considered one of the 3 fastest birds in the animal kingdom. Sharing its name with an aircraft that is considered VTOL, name this bird.
1494	Elanor Rigby	There is a headstone behind St. Peters church in Liverpool, England, that was stumbled upon by Paul McCartney in 1957. He would eventually write and release a song about a lonely woman that he would grow close with, and the name of the song was the same name that he saw on the headstone. What name was on the headstone?
1495	Land before time	Don Bluth Movie Studio, owned and operated by Don Bluth, a former Disney animation employee, spawned one very successful film, before going defunct I 1995. Please name this film, released in 1988, had the tagline “A new adventure is born”, and grossed almost $90 million at the box office.
1496	You’ve got a friend – James Taylor	Carole King was the first woman to compose the song that won best song of the year, occurring in 1971. What song did she write, which shares its name with the first half of a theme song from a Pixar movie?
1497	Vikings, blackhawks, raiders, patriots, senators, celtics	There are six sports teams with faces in their logos. For 10 points each, name five of them:
1498	Neil young, Elton john, peter Frampton, Fleetwood mac, pink Floyd, Asia, George Michael, Alanis Morrissette, spice girls, Adele	Since the year 1970, there have been 10 artists born outside the US to take home the accolade of best-selling album of the year. Given the years, please list the 10 artists.
1499		
1500		
1501		
1502		
1503		
1504	Gryffindor	This past week, we lost Dame Maggie Smith at the age of 89. Minerva Mcgonagall, her most famous character and a major part of the Harry Potter franchise, was a part of what house, with the sigil of a lion?
1505	Power rangers	Zordon, a wise galactic wizard who fought for the side of good against the forces of evil, gave what group of heroes their powers?
1506	Detective	The D in DC Comics stands for what word, that happens to be the same profession that DC character John Constantine has in his stories?
1507	King Kong	In between the Lord of the Rings and the Hobbit film franchises, Peter Jackson directed what stand-alone film, about a title character who made his towering debut in 1933?
1508	Sheep	In the popular board game Settlers of Catan, a settlement is built by having 4 unique resources: wood, brick, wheat, and what animal, which could be used in multiple different ways?
1509	Reed Richards	Rick and Morty parodied Marvel by showing Rick form the “Council of Ricks”, a council of different Ricks from different timelines. They parodied Marvels council of who, which happens to be the smartest man in the Marvel universe?
1510	Donkey Kong	Famously, Mario made his first appearance in 1981. Who was Mario’s first enemy that he faced, when he attempted to rescue the princess?
1511	Tim curry	Before Mark Hamill was recast the voice of the Joker on the animated Batman series, the Joker was voiced by what It-man and concierge at the world-renowned Plaza Hotel?
1512	Ben Kenobi	The first words we hear spoken in Star Wars: A New Hope are spoken by C3PO, with the question “Did you hear that?”. The first words we hear spoken by a person in said movie are the words “Hello there”, spoken by who?
1513	Dig Dug	In the season 2 premiere of Stranger Things, we see the main characters playing what classic arcade game, which is reminiscent of the plotline to come? The titular character in the game they play is set to eliminate on screen enemies, Pookas and Fygars, using air pumps or rocks…
1514	Cotton Candy	When Shaggy and Scooby Doo begin to DJ on the panel that activates the monster maker in Scooby Doo 2: Monsters Unleashed, we see them make a slew of monsters, including Captain Cutler and Miner 49er. Shaggy and Scoob end up consuming a monster made of what treat later that scene?
1515	Bone saw	The most appearances by a Marvel character in movies is Spider Man, with 12 appearances. His first appearance is in 2002’s Spider Man, where he willingly showcases his powers against who first?
1516	Raven	In the TV show Game of Thrones, the embodiment of the past, present, and future is described as what kind of animal? Remember when Ed Reed and Terrell Suggs made guest appearances on that show?
1517	Rachet	The original Michael Bay Transformers movie features side characters like weapons specialist Ironhide, first lieutenant Jazz, and medial officer who, who shares his name with a tool?
1518	Kirby	The first character outside of the Mario and Pokémon realms to be featured on the list of best-selling Gameboy games of all time is what dreamy character? Their game comes in at number 9, right in front of Super Mario Bros…
1519	Free Bird	What song plays during the chaotic church battle scene in the movie Kingsman: The Secret Service? Released in 1973, this song is a tribute to Alman brother Duane Allman, and I’m sure someone yelled it out to be played at his funeral.
1520	Battlefield Earth	The Razzie for worst film of the 21st century was given to what Sci-fi film, released in the year 2000? Starring John Travolta and Forest Whitaker, this movie is rated 3% on Rotten Tomatoes and has an abysmal 2.1/10 on IMDB.
1521	War Machine, Vision, Loki, Spider Man, Jane Foster	For 10 points each, tell me the superpowered MCU characters that have appeared in the most films, outside of the original 6 avengers.
1522	Poison	In the original generation of Pokémon, the most abundant type across all 151 Pokémon is what type? With 33 mons sporting this type, that is over 1/5 Pokémon having this type, as well as the 5th gym leader in Kanto having this type as his specialty…
1523		
1524		
1525		
1526	May the force be with you	We lost one of the best Hollywood voices yesterday with the passing of James Earl Jones. Jones voices Darth Vader in 5 movies, with iconic lines “No, I am your father” and “What”. Alongside these lines, there are two lines spoken in every Star Wars film, one being “I have a bad feeling about this”, and the other being what?
1527	Tim Burton	The most recent Hollywood Walk of Fame inductee was inducted last Tuesday and received the 2,788th star. It’s very timely, as this person’s formula for weird and peculiar movies has been recently brought back to the spotlight. Who was given a star on the Walk of Fame last Tuesday, probably making his millennium?
1528	W	After the Clinton administration left the White House, the Government Accountability Office said they caused $15,000 worth of damage. They apparently ripped phone cords out of the wall, defaced bathrooms, and stole what key from every keyboard in the home?
1529	Leann Rimes	What singer made history at the 1997 Grammy Awards, after she became the youngest individual to ever win a Grammy, at age 14, winning Best New Artist? Her debut album Blue was a mix of retro country and pop sheen that got her a one-way ticket to number 3 on the Billboard top 100.
1530	Chuck E Cheese	The founder of the gaming console Atari, Nolan Bushnell, also founded what restaurant chain, with over 600 locations? Lore states the restaurant was named because you can’t say it without smiling…
1531	Rio De Janeiro	Musician Barry Manilow famously states that the Copacabana is the hottest spot north of Havana. Theorists say he is referring to the Copacabana night club in NYC, but in all reality, the real Copacabana is considered one of the world’s most famous beaches, and is found in what city south of Havana?
1532	Jack Johnson	James Earl Jones’s breakout role was that in the Broadway play Great White Hope, in which he portrays what boxer, who probably got some of his protein eating his protein filled banana pancakes?
1533	Lord Voldemort	The most expensive Lego figure that is able to be purchased using studs in any Lego video game is what dark lord, he who must not be named, or you-know-who?
1534	Good times	I’ve been working all week and I’m tired! Running from 1974 – 1979, the first TV show with a fully African American family was called what?
1535	El Dorado	Sir Walter Raleigh founded the first English settlement in the new world when he founded Roanoke, Virginia. After said accomplishment, he set out to attempt to find the lost city of gold, which he failed to do. With a little help from Miguel and Tulio, he may have found the city, known as what?
1536	Colt 45’s	The original Houston major league baseball team was named after what weapon, known to be the reason the north won the Civil War, and the only other thing Afroman needs besides a couple joints?
1537	Stagg	The 2024 International Whiskey Competition results released this past summer, with the top US whiskey coming in at number 9. This whiskey is produced at the Buffalo Trace Distillery, and has what brand name, that shares its name with another big game animal?
1538	Benchwarmers	The only IMDB credit James Earl Jones has as Darth Vader outside of a Star Wars property is in what 2006 comedy? He voices a robotic Vader gate guard outside of Jon Lovitz’s house, and not Clay Aikens, as David Spade guesses…
1539	Ray Gun	NBC News released an article today stating that what athlete, who went viral during the 2024 Olympic games for her “moves”, is back ranked number one in the world by her sport’s governing body? She shares her name with the best weapon found in places like Kino Der Toten and Shi No Numa…
1540	Country bear jamboree	In Disney’s new initiative to address and rectify outdated and culturally unaware elements in their theme parks, they replaced a 50-year-old animatronic in what attraction this summer?
1541	Guardians	The Army has soldiers, the Air Force has Airmen… the new Space Force calls their ranks what? If you were to join, you could be in the same rank as Jose Ramirez, Cosmo, or Adam Warlock.
1542	Saggitarius and Scorpio	The supermassive black hole at the center of our universe is settled between the two constellations that, in myth, are in an eternal battle/hunt, where one is trying to take down the other. Please name these two constellations, who can be found right next to each other in the night sky.
1543		
1544		
1545		
1546		
1547		
1548	Simpsons	“I will not waste chalk” was the first “detention chalkboard gag” viewers ever read during the opening sequence of what TV show?
1549	MIT	In the movie Good Will Hunting, we see Will, played by Matt Damon, solve a complex theorem on a chalkboard at what prestigious institute?
1550	Lynx	FW 207: Fisheries and Wildlife of Michigan - The two land mammals on the list of endangered species that can be found in Michigan are the grey wolf, and what big cat? Mostly found in the UP and Minneapolis, these triangular eared cats are known for their mutton chops like mane.
1551	Toga	After we see every member of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity fail the psychology exam because they stole the wrong answer key, they decide to let loose, and throw what kind of party?
1552	Franki Valli	Winter, Spring, Summer, and Fall… the title song in the musical Grease, set at the fictional Rydell High School in Chicago, was recorded by who?
1553	Ursa Major	AST 207: Applied Astronomy - The largest of the northern constellations is what circumpolar constellation, which includes 20 major stars, and is associated with Callisto in Greek Myth?
1554	Pufferfish	In the TV show Spongebob Squarepants, we see that the titular character have a really difficult time passing boating school. Over his boating school tenure, we saw that his teacher was what type of fish?
1555	Potions	In both the movie and book version of Harry Potter, we see that Harry’s first class taken at Hogwarts is what core class, that takes place in the dungeon of the school?
1556	Syracuse	HST 329 – History of College Sports in America - Ben Burtt Jr., a world-renowned sound designer known for designing the sounds of the original Star Wars trilogy, used a tradition at his alma mater, known as dome stomping, when designing the laser sound for imperial blasters. This “dome stomping” occurs outside the Carrier Dome football and basketball arena, that can be found at what university?
1557	Steve Buscemi	After Billy Madison chooses the category of business ethics at the end of the academic decathlon for his foe Eric Gordon, Eric goes off the deep end and pulls out a pistol. Before he shoots Billy, Eric is shot in the buttocks by Danny McGrath, Billy’s old/new friend, who is portrayed by who?
1558	Clovers	In the movie Bring It On, we see the Rancho Carne High School Toros cheerleading squad have a heated rivalry with East Compton high school, who’s mascot is what flowering plant?
1559	Idaho	GEO 212 – Geography of the National Parks – After the introduction of New River Gorge National Park in West Virginia in 2020, National Geographic named Craters of the Moon natural area the frontrunner to become the next national park. Located on the complete other side of the country, this would be what states first full national park?
1560	Maggie Mae	If you’re Rod Stewart, and it’s late September so you have to get back to school, what is the name of the woman who kept you amused all summer?
1561	Jack Morris	HST 320 – History of Michigan – Alongside Alan Trammel, the only other hall of fame player from the 1984 Detroit Tigers World Series team is what player, who wore number 47, has the nickname Captain Hook, and holds the record for most times leading the team in wins, with 11?
1562	Aerosmith	In the movie Dazed and Confused, we see the main cast head out to purchase concert tickets at the end of the film after celebrating the end of senior year. What band were they going to buy tickets for?
1563	Pinot Noir	HRT 430 – Exploring Wines and Vines – The most planted cultivar of grape in the state of Michigan is what grape, used in the making of sparkling wine and still wine, and is a staple in both the Leelanau and Old Mission peninsulas?
1564	Stanford, Cal Tech, MIT, University of Chicago, Duke university	For ten points each, name the top 5 hardest to get into/lowest acceptance rate university’s outside of the Ivy League in the United States.
1565		
1566		
1567	Platypus	Disney’s Oogie Boogie Bash started this past weekend, with 2 new villains gracing the lineup. Guests got to meet Hades from Hercules, but also got to meet a man by the name of Dr. Heinz Doofenshmirtz. We see this man on the TV have a mortal enemy that is what animal?
1568	Michael J Fox	Coldplay headlined the Glastonbury music festival, one of the largest in the world, in late June. Chris Martin brought what McFly guy on the stage to play guitar for the song “Fix You”?
1569	PBR	What beer, brewed in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, known for their slogan “What’ll you have” and for being Shawn’s favorite beer, holds the distinction for being the first beverage to ever be put into 6 packs?
1570	Foo Fighters	In the movie The Other Guys, we see Dwayne the Rock Johnson and Sam L Jackson jump off a rooftop and completely miss the bushes, crashing on the concrete. This occurs while the song My Hero, heard here, plays in the background. This song is sung by what band?
1571	Astronauts	There are rare instances on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in which the people’s stars aren’t star shaped. There are three spots on the walk where the stars are instead circles. These spots belong to people with what otherworldly occupation?
1572	Ring of Fire	A geographic area in the outer Pacific Ocean known for seismic activity and volcanic eruptions shares its name with what Billboard number one song, sung by the Man in Black, that spent 7 weeks at the number one spot in 1963?
1573	Casablanca	Well always have Paris… The largest town in Morocco lends its name to what 1944 best picture winner, starring Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman?
1574	5 and 7	Poker hands have nicknames describing the two cards in one’s hand, for example “snowmen” describe a pair of 8’s and fido describes having a King and a 9, K9. What pair of cards is described by the term Heinz?
1575	Wheelhouse	Starting in the 1950’s, baseball announcers took what nautical term for an area on a boat and started using it to describe an area of the strike zone where the hitter has power?
1576	Bonnie and Clyde	What 1967 crime/adventure movie character duo announced the wrong winners of the best picture at the 2017 Oscars, announcing La La Land instead of Moonlight?
1577	Pied Piper	The TV show Silicon Valley follows the creation of a tech company that they name after a Germanic folk character, known for the story of luring children away from the town of Hamelin, for payback to the townsfolk. What is the name of the tech company and this folk antihero?
1578	George Strait	Who broke the record for largest US attended concert at over 110,000 people on June 15th this past summer during his tour the Cowboy Rides Away? Grab your ruler, we may have to measure the line to get in…
1579	Foxtrot	The NATO phonetic alphabet is used by the US military to ensure speech is heard clearly when communicating over the phone. Two of these letters are also the names of ballroom dances. The Tango, and what other dance?
1580	Cheers	The person who has voiced the most Pixar roles voices the likes of Ham in Toy Story, Mack in Cars, and the Underminer in The Incredibles. He got his start playing a postal worker on what show?
1581	Mumford and Sons	The music for the TV show Ted Lasso was written and recorded by what band, who won their first Grammy in 2012 for their album Babel, and are described as being fast paced, instrument dense, and having songs rooted in Christianity?
1582	Genghis Kahn	The tomb of what world ruler is still unknown and is highly sought after by archeologists, as everyone who witnessed his funeral was executed?
1583	New Zealand	What country has been in the news as of late, for the native people wanting to change the name of the country to Aotearoa, a more traditional word, meaning north and south island?
1584	Brigham Young University, Leland Stanford, James Buchannan Duke, Vanderbilt, John Purdue, Colonel Henry Rutgers	There are six Power 5 universities that are named after people. Name them for 10 points each.
1585		Cryptid tinder
1586		
1587		
1588	In the front yard	If you’re in the band Lit, and you happen to be your own worst enemy, where is your car?
1589	Road Runner	In animated TV, its shown that the coyote is really never able to outpace what rival? However, they should’ve done a little more research, as in real life, the coyote outpaces said animal by over 20 MPH….
1590	Pitbull	In October 2023, Miami Dade county lifted the ban on owning what dog breed? This is probably a good thing, because if they didn’t, Mr. 305 wouldn’t be having the time of his life…
1591	Equestrian	Three athletes appeared in the 2024 Olympics for the sixth time representing team USA: Diana Taurasi, Stefan Peters, and McLain Ward. Diana Taurasi is obviously a basketball legend, but the other two compete in what Mystik sport?
1592	Jukebox	In 1981, Joan Jett asked us to use a dime. 10 years later, Alan Jackson asked us to use a quarter. Knowing this, the inflation rate for what device is about 10% over that span?
1593	Sun King	King Louis XIV, the longest reigning sovereign in history at over 72 years, has what nickname? He shares his nickname with the second largest brewery in the state of Indiana, with beers such as Osiris Pale Ale and Grapefruit Jungle IPA.
1594	Alexander Hamilton	What man, who lends his name to a musical, is the bastard orphan son of a whore and a Scotsman?
1595	Paper towns	If you’re a Hank Green fan, you’re probably keen to the fact that cartographers create imaginary places on their maps to ensure that other map makers don’t steal their work. These imaginary places are called what?
1596	Lacoste	What brand, founded in France in 1933, is known to be the first clothing brand that put their logo, which has the color name FOREVERGLADES, on the front of their clothing?
1597	Hedwig	Gizmo, Casper, Oops, Swoops, and Bandit are all names of the animals that played what avian character on the big screen?
1598	Typhoon	The definition of a hurricane is a tropical windstorm with maximum sustained winds at over 75 MPH. However, the term hurricane only applies to storms in the Atlantic Ocean. What are these storms called in the Pacific? If you don’t know, head on over to get your haircut in Pawnee, Indiana to find out the answer.
1599	Vatican City	According to National Geographic, the most inaccessible place in the world is the archives under what place? It is only open to qualified scholars who are interested in carrying out scientific investigations, and all the records belong to one individual person.
1600	Sugarland	The Houston Astros triple A affiliate, the Space Cowboys, are based in a city that shares its name with a country band with singers Jennifer and Kristian and albums “Love on the Inside” and “Twice the Speed of Life”. What city are the Space Cowboys based in?
1601	Curious George	In the movie Forrest Gump, we see the book Forrest’s mom reads to him become a major motif. A feather falls on the book, and he keeps the feather inside the book and places it in his briefcase. At the end of the movie, we see Forrest give the book to his son with the feather in it. What book, written in 1941 by H.A Rey, is the book Forrest keeps in the movie, nicknamed the “Tailless Tale”?
1602	Hamlet	In colonial times, a town must have a church or central place of worship to be called a town. If it did not have said place, it would be called a what? This term shares its name with Shakespeare’s longest play.
1603	Formula 1	According to Golf Digest, the top three paid sports in the world are basketball, baseball, and what third sport, which is mostly based in Europe, but is slowly navigating its way to the states?
1604	Wesley Snipes	With his appearance in the most recent Deadpool movie, what actor set the Guinness Book of World Record record for longest marvel movie career, at 25 years?
1605	Arc of the covenant	The guardian, located in Ethiopia, is the place one of the worlds most important artifacts is kept. However, only one person is allowed to see it, being the guardian, and he must die or burst into flames in his position before someone takes his place. What artifact is located in Ethiopia?
1606	Arthur, Spongebob, fairly oddparents, dora, bugs bunny show	In honor of Cartoon Network shutting down this morning, for 10 points each, please tell me the 5 longest running animated kid tv shows.
1607		
1608		Bellatrix Lestrange is mother to Doctor Shaun Murphy, all while Gator Lerner hangs out in the background, plotting…
1609		
1610		
1611	Bonnie Tyler	News outlets ran rampant with stories this past Monday, discussing the eclipse. What artist received an overnight revival, as her song Total Eclipse of the Heart sored up the charts on said day?
1612	Old sport	He’s third cousin to the Kaiser and second cousin to the devil! What term of endearment nickname does Jay Gatsby always call Nick Carraway in the Great Gatsby? One would say archery is one, too…
1613	Pimento cheese	A tradition like no other… Today started the 88th edition of the Masters, which has some incredible traditions. The term “rough” is never used, it is closed from May to October, and the winners are only allowed to wear the coveted Green Jacket at Augusta National after their win. For a whopping $1.50, one can buy their famous sandwich, which has what main ingredient, Spanish for pickled pepper?
1614	Gonzaga	With March Madness now over, I’d love to revisit 2019, when Jimmy Kimmel had a three-show arc explaining how he doesn’t believe that what west coast university, which has been to the March Madness tournament since 1999, doesn’t exist?
1615	Grant Imahara	Before tragically passing away in 2020 at the age of 49, what scientist, known for working on myth-ical effects in the Star Wars movies and Jurassic Park, completed his last invention, an animatronic baby Yoda, which now travels across the country visiting kids in hospitals?
1616	Napa Valley	Located in a town called Yountville, the French Laundry, known for its cake and bread, is the highest rated restaurant in the US, and the only with the coveted 3 Michelin stars. In what valley filled state would you find the French Laundry?
1617	Go!	Get set… What board game, invented 4,000 years ago in China, is considered to be one of the oldest games in history, and has over 10^700 different board permutations?
1618	West	What is the only cardinal direction that cannot be found in the name of a currently recognized country?
1619	Ice Cream	From July 1st, 1914 on, all booze was banned on US navy ships, due to the sailors having to interact with large machinery and being contained on a small vessel out at sea. Due to this, in World War 2, dedicated barges were constructed in the Pacific to make what product
1620	Colorado Rockies	What team shares the distinction with the Toronto Raptors as being the only teams in the four North American major sports leagues to have a dinosaur as a mascot? Triceratops fossils were found near and under where their current stadium sits and were found during the construction of said stadium.
1621	Piggly Wiggly	Th- th- th- the first supermarket opened in Memphis, Tennessee in 1918. Since th- th- th- then, said chain has opened more than 500 stores, mostly heading towards the east coast. What was th- th- th- the first supermarket to be opened in the US?
1622	Atomic bomb	The group U2 will forever live in infamy, after their 2004 studio album was automatically downloaded onto millions of peoples Iphone’s without their permission. The title of this album asks the question, how does one dismantle what type of object?
1623	Kazakhstan	In the year 2020, what country’s board of tourism adopted the phrase “Very Nice!” as their new slogan? Other than being the largest landlocked country in the world, they don’t have much to see on the side of tourism, other than meeting the oldest woman in Kuzcek, Asimbala, at the ripe age of 43.
1624	Ryan Reynolds	In the upcoming 2024 movie Kraven the Hunter, we will see Aaron Taylor Johnson take on his third comic movie role as the titular character, alongside his previous roles as Quiksilver and Kick Ass. Currently, who is the only person to have starred as three different comic book characters on screen?
1625	The land of ice and fire	Iceland, a small Nordic Island country to the northeast of Europe, has what nickname? Probably shouldn’t ask George Raymond Richard Martin on this one, as he hasn’t finished his answer yet…
1626	Aspen tree	Pando, a cloning tree and the world’s largest living organism, is located in Fishlake National Forest in Utah. What type of tree is Pando? If you don’t know, you may want to ask this guy, the leading expert of said organism…
1627	Jimmy Stewart	What celebrity ranks the highest in terms of military rank, above second place Ronald Reagan, with his rank as Brigadier General? With his film career spanning 80 years, American Film Institute ranks him at third on the list of the greatest American Actors of all time. He received his Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1985, 12 years before his death in 1997, at the age of 89.
1628		
1629		
1630		
1631		
1632	Corona	Go find your beach! The outermost layer of the sun shares its name with a beer described as a clean and light pale lager, that happens to be celebrating its 99th birthday this year. What is the name of the outer most layer of the sun?
1633	Rick Moranis	What actor stars in a 1980s movie where he gets possessed and ends up seeking out the Gatekeeper of Gozer, Zuul?
1634	Home Improvement	The Leland Lodge, a place close to the Coughlin’s family’s heart, especially when Shawn plays Santa, seen here, was the setting for an episode a 90s TV episode titled “A Taylor Runs Through It”. What TV show filmed here, just miles from the main characters summer home?
1635	Peter Frampton	Just days ago, they unveiled the class of 2024 Rock N Roll Hall of Fame inductees. This year’s class seems to be one of the better ones in recent memory, with inductees such as Ozzy Osbourne, Kool and the Gang, and Dave Matthews Band. What legendary guitarist, known for his bands Humble Pie and the Herd, also stars in Ringo Starr’s All-Star Band, and was able to show himself the way to the hall this year as well?
1636	A tribe called quest	With the new inductees, ABBA has been knocked off as the top alphabetical group in the Hall. What NYC based hip hop group, known for its eclectic sound, now site first alphabetically, and is the only group in the entire Hall to start with a one letter word?
1637	Fox and the hound, Black cauldron, great mouse detective, Oliver company, the little mermaid	Very simply, please name two of the five fully animated Disney movies released in the 1980s.
1638	Shaggy	Zoinks! In a court of law, the legal strategy for a defendant to simply state “It Wasn’t Me” is named after what reggae musician?
1639	Kris Kristofferson	What fourth man, known mostly as a songwriter, made up the super-group known as The Highwaymen, alongside Willie Nelson, Waylon Jennings, and Johnny Cash? Known for songs such as “Me and Bobby Mcgee” and “Help me make it through the night”, this alliterative man also starred as the lead man in the original version of “A Star is Born”.
1640	Aesop’s Fables	Stories like The Tortoise and the Hare, The Boy who Cried Wolf, and The Goose that Laid the Golden Eggs all come from what collection of stories, written around the 6th century BCE?
1641	Pigs (truffle shuffle)	What animal traditionally hunts for the food item found in the name of the dance that Chunk performs in the movie the Goonies?
1642	Charge of the light brigade	Kathy Bates would tell you that what poem, written by Alfred Lord Tennison in 1854, chronicles a battalion of British horse riders attempting to overtake a heavily fortified Russian post during the Crimean War?
1643	Piano	Trinity Studios in downtown London holds what might possibly be the most noteworthy instrument of the 20th century. The Beatles, Elton John, Queen, and David Bowie have all recorded various songs on this instrument, some of which have become their biggest hits. What instrument, with the brand C Bechstein, is the centerpiece of Trinity Studios?
1644	Clifford the big red dog	In what book series, written in the 60s and 70s by Norman Bridwell, would one see a little girl by the name of Emily Elizabeth go on wacky adventures with her friendly pet companion? Said pet companion is currently the mascot for Scholastic Books.
1645	Penguin	Currently, the highest-ranking animal in any country’s military is General Sir Nils Olav III, Baron of the Bouvet Islands. He currently resides at Edinburgh Zoo in Scotland, and serves as the colonel-in-chief to the Norwegian Crown. What type of animal is General Sir Nils Olav III?
1646	San Antonio Spurs	Teams like Boston and the Lakers have always been known to dominate the NBA, but what team beats both and is ranked number one in overall win percentage?
1647	Yeti	In 1953, Tenzing Norgay was the first person to report seeing what cryptid, which lends its name to a possible team name for the newly announced Utah based NHL team?
1648	Johnny Carson and Lucille Ball	Name either the man or the woman that appears on the most TV Guide Magazine Covers all time.
1649	Bryce Young, Travon Walker, Trevor Lawrence, Joe Burrow, Kyler Murray	For ten points each, name the last 5 number 1 picks in the NFL Draft.
1650		
1651		
1652	Werewolves of London	All Summer Long, the summer anthem by Michigan legend Kid Rock, draws its opening guitar riff from what song, which was written by a Chicago native and released in 1978?
1653	Phineas and Ferb	What TV show has its intro song written and sung by Bowling for Soup, and is titled “Today is Gonna be a Great Day”? One would consider it a great day if they were creating a reproducible machine, dyeing Europe or Africa, or soaping down Mojo Jojo.
1654	Dionysus	Summer is all about summer camp…. What Greek god, the god of vegetation, insanity, and theater, runs Camp Half Blood, the camp that Percy Jackson lives at in the Percy Jackson book series?
1655	Rick Porcello	Summer is all about baseball! The 2012 Tigers had possibly the best rotation in MLB history from an accolade standpoint, as they were the first team to have three separate Cy Young winners in a rotation since the Glavine/Smoltz/Maddux Braves. What pitcher tagged along with Max Scherzer and Justin Verlander as the third person with a Cy Young in the 2012 Tigers rotation?
1656	Horses	In 2024, we will see the best athletes in the world convene in Paris for the 2024 Olympics. The only time the Olympics were held in two different countries was in the year 1956, when Melbourne, Australia cohosted with Stockholm, Sweden. Three similar events occurred in Sweden because what living thing was not allowed into Australia?
1657	Jennifer Coolidge	American Pie 2 revolves around 4 high school buddies trying to live it up before college begins. They rent a beach on Lake Michigan and vow to have the best summer ever. Paul Finch, one of the main characters, seems to be in love with the “bad” guy, Steve Stifler’s, mom. Who played Stifler’s mom?
1658	Three Musketeers	For the last question in the movie Slumdog Millionaire, Jamal must answer a question about what book, with characters such as Athos, Porthos, Aramis, and D’Artagnan?
1659	Wildcats and Bulldogs	Two of the top five most common college mascots do not coincide with a major 4 sports team mascot. Please name both for points.
1660	Burt Reynolds, Christoph Waltz, Matthew McConaughey	In the 40th anniversary edition of SNL, we see Will Ferrell take up his iconic mantle of Alex Trebek on Celebrity Jeopardy. The three contestants at the start are Sean Connery, Justin Bieber, and Tony Bennet. Please name 2 of the 3 other “celebrities” that appear as contestants as the skit goes on.
1661	TGI Fridays	What now declining restaurant chain was founded in downtown Manhattan in 1965, and was the first place to put the promotion of “Ladies Night” into place, as the original owner was single and wanted to mingle?
1662	Pink Floyd	What bands founding lead vocalist, Syd Barret, had a mental break, eventually destroyed his mind from drugs, and forced the band to find a new lead vocalist? They would eventually write and record the song “Shine on you, Crazy Diamond”, in honor of Syd.
1663	Christopher Lee	What actor is said to be the inspiration for the character James Bond, as he is Ian Fleming’s cousin, fought in World War 2, and holds the record of having the most on screen deaths in movies and TV?
1664	Pooping or peeing	Because they must travel to the ground to do so, the sloth is most susceptible to die when doing what activity?
1665	Bolivia	Legend states that Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, American train robbers and leaders of the “Wild Bunch” gang, fled to what country to escape police, seen here? With the highest growing rate of the Coca plant, used in the making of cocaine, in the world, and Lake Titicaca, the highest lake in the world, this might end up being my next bucket list place…
1666	John Wayne Gacy	Singer/songwriter Sufjan Stevens’s album titled “Come on, Feel the Illinoise” has a track named after what prolific serial killer, who ravaged the Chicago area in the 1970s?
1667	Long Island	What island has the largest population of United State citizens in the world, at just over 7.5 million people?
1668	IKEA	At over 200 million printed copies each year since 2010, what store’s catalog is thought to be the most printed product in history?
1669	Mamma Mia, jersey boys, les Misérables, the producers, Mary Poppins	For 10 points each, name the top 5 grossing musicals of all time, that only have two word titles.
1670		
1671		
1672	Michael Jordan	Last night, Steven Izzo, the son of MSU coach Tom Izzo, kissed the Spartan S at center court, a tradition at MSU since 1995. Shawn Respert, retired MSU number 24, was the first person to kiss the S on senior night after taking notes from who? The inspiration came from someone who did it 6 months earlier, when he retired for the FIRST time…
1673	Morgan Freeman	What 2005 Best Supporting Actor winner, as well as three-time Best Actor nominee, always wears large gold earrings, due to his want to pay for a coffin if he were to die in a strange place?
1674	Sir, War, Bold	Over the course of the Kentucky Derby, there have been some weird names, with my favorite, Thunder Gulch… only three words have been in more than one horses name. Two three letter words, and one four letter word. For full points, name one of the words, and for a bonus 5, name another.
1675	The Adventures of Pinocchio	What book, written in 1883 and would eventually be reworked to be a Disney animated movie, had the main character kill off its secondary character on page 11 of the book using a hammer? Don’t worry, this never happened in the movie, as the secondary character played a large role. I wouldn’t wanna kill off this character, either, as I never like being caught in the rain…
1676	Uma Thurman	Birgit Holmquist, a Swedish model, has a nude statue of her at the southernmost tip of Sweden. Birgit’s grandchild, an American actress, holds the title of having the best movie fight scene of the 2000s, per MTV. Please name Birgit’s granddaughter.
1677	Bloody Mary	Catherine of Aragon, Henry the 8ths first wife, only had one child survive past childhood. This child, a daughter, was the first ruling queen regent of England. What was her better-known nickname, one that a dash of pepper or a chub may very much help…
1678	Icee	What brand is attributed with the creation of the fake fruit flavor Blue Raspberry, as they wanted their original flavors to be unique?
1679	Wu Tang Clan	By more than double, the most expensive vinyl album ever sold was a 1 of 1 recording of the 2015 album “Once Upon a Time in Shaolin”. What ten-person group from New York City recorded said album, and has only given selling rights to the actor Bill Murray?
1680	Brandy	The state cocktail of Wisconsin is the Old Fashioned with the whiskey replaced with what liquor? If you don’t have any, try to find a St Bernard while they’re on the mountain, or ask the lead singer from the band Looking Glass…
1681	Merv Griffin	What celebrity, who passed in 2007, is buried with this headstone: “I will not be back right after these messages”…
1682	Wings	The first best picture winner of all time, winning in the year 1929, shares its name with a band with albums like Venus and Mars, London Town, and Red Rose Speedway. Please name the band, that also lent its talents to a popular movie theme song.
1683		
1684		
1685	Movie 43, green book	Peter Farley is the only person with the distinction of directing a worst film at the Razzies, as well as winning best picture at the Oscars within a five-year period, with one in 2013 and the other 2018. Please name one of the two movies, one with a number in the title, one with a color.
1686	American Bison, Cattle, Brown bear, Moose, elk	Name the top five heaviest land mammals on the north American continent, for 10 points each.
1687		
1688		
1689	Flint	Three of the starting five on the Michigan State Spartans basketball team that won the 2000 NCAA national title hailed from what city?
1690	M119	Ranked as Michigan’s most iconic restaurant by MLive, the Legs Inn is a must see when visiting what scenic Michigan road?
1691	Stroh’s	What Detroit brewery, with a lion as its logo, had a corporate offshoot that is credited to be the creator of the iconic Superman ice cream flavor?
1692	Kenny Rogers	The last time a pitcher and catcher duo started the MLB midsummer classic from the same team was in the year 2006 when the Detroit Tigers sent out Ivan Rodriguez as the starting catcher, and what pitcher, which no one would have bet on? I’m no gambler anymore, but I wouldn’t have bet either…
1693	Jamaica	Until 2019, the mascot of Kellogg’s Apple Jacks was based off someone from what country?
1694	Lake sturgeon	On January 31, 2023, a 193-pound fish was caught in Cheboygan’s Mullet Lake. The next biggest fish caught in Michigan on record is 70 pounds. What kind of fish was caught, and will likely never be topped in terms of size?
1695	Wayne State	According to College Raptor, as of 2023, the top three enrolled universities in the state in terms of mascots are Wolverines, Spartans, then the Knights. What university comes in third place in terms of enrollment for the Mitten?
1696	Don’t Stop Believin’	What song can be heard in the final scene of the Sopranos, was heard at the end of the closing ceremonies of Joe Louis Arena, and was thrown in the face of Detroit fans, when long time season ticket holder Stephen Perry sang it at the opening of the 2012 World Series in San Francisco?
1697	Jacobson’s	What store, founded in Reed City in 1838, had 23 stores at its height of popularity in the 1980s? If you don’t know how to tie a knot over a white box, you can go ask my Aunt Mary, or Nightcrawler…
1698	Traverse City	In what city would you find one of the largest historic renovations in the country, which includes a cluster of creamy castles, surrounded by acres of beautiful woods? Fun fact, the woods houses the highest number of different tree species in the world, at over 500.
1699	Simon and Garfunkel	What group had their tours final performance at the Saginaw YMCA in 1966, performing their song “America”, which chronicles a man hitchhiking across America from Saginaw to New Jersey?
1700	Dante Culpepper	After poor showings from quarterbacks Jon Kitna and Dan Orlovsky, the 2008 0-7 Detroit Lions signed what former Minnesota Vikings quarterback? Even though they spiced things up, they would still lost the next 9 games…
1701	Gala	Michigan is full of apples…. Everything from Fuji’s to Golden Delicious, to even the new varietals coming to market, including the Snap Dragon, Firestorm, and Ludacrisp. However, what apple variety makes its way down the red carpet, and has the highest number of trees in the Mitten, at over 3.5 million?
1702	and the Mysterians	Other than Madonna, one other Bay City group has hit number one on the US charts. With their song 96 Tears, heard here, what one hit wonder band hit the number one spot in August of 1966?
1703	JK Simmons	Over the course of the Oscars, only three Michigan born actors/actresses have won an acting Oscar. Ellen Burstyn, a Detroit native, won for Alice Doesn’t Live Here Anymore; Kim Hunter, also a Detroit native, won for a Streetcar Named Desire; and what Grosse Point native, who won Best Supporting Actor in 2014 alongside a cock?
1704	James Franco, Jason Segel, Seth Rogen	The TV show Freaks and Geeks, one of the only shows to have the coveted 100% on Rotten Tomatoes. Taking place in Detroit, this show launched the careers of what three “Freaks”?
1705	Boston Cooler	The classic Detroit drink of Vernors and ice cream (rum optional) is named after what other major US city?
1706	The crow	Brandon Lee, the son of martial artist Bruce Lee, died on the set of his “superhero” movie from a gunshot wound. This movie was released in the year 1994 and was set in the city of Detroit. Please name this movie, about a man who was murdered and came back to life as an undead avenger.
1707	Iggy Pop	What Michigan native, known to perform shirtless, was inducted into the Rock N Roll Hall of Fame in the year 2010 as a member of his band, and is ranked in the top 50 of best voices of all time by NPR?
1708	Kalamazoo	As of late 2023, Hard Rock hotel plans to revitalize the old Gibson Guitars office and factory and turn it into a new hotel. While visiting said hotel, you could also go check out the Air Zoo, or the Eccentric Café. In what town would you find this new Hard Rock venture?
1709	Ramblin Gamblin man	The Bob Seger System was the original name of the band of which Bob Seger fronted, before the Silver Bullet Band. Their first single that charted on the national charts peaked at number 17 in 1968, and the success of said song lead to an album of the same name being released one year later. Please name Bob Seger’s first charting song, of which his buddy, Glenn Fry, sang back up and played guitar on.
1710	Muskrat	The native American legend of how Mackinaw Island was formed involves a loon, a beaver, and an otter not being able to make it to the bottom of Lake Huron to grab soil for the turtle. What other animal is able to achieve this feat, a known as a burrower and for its poor smell?
1711		
1712	Unicorn	According to a classic St. Patrick’s Day song written by Shel Silverstein and made famous by the Irish Rovers, what animal has gone extinct due to Noah not being able to get said animals on his ark, before the big storm came?
1713	Johnny Cash	The Whiting, a small music venue in Flint, hosted the last public show of what “Man in Black”? Occurring in late 1997, the legend took the stage, and about half hour into the show, he almost fell off the stage. He then would explain to the crowd of his Parkinson’s diagnosis, of which he succumbed to 6 years later, 4 months after his wife.
1714	Christopher cross	I am going to play you an instrumental part of the song that won song of the year at the Grammys in 1980, as well as helping the singer take home new artist of the year. Please name the artist.
1715	Beauty and the beast	The first Broadway musical adapted from a Disney film debuted in 1994, 3 years after the release of the film. A new song was introduced in the musical version, called A Change in Me, heard here. Please name this movie/musical.
1716	I saw the sign – ace of bass	In the movie Pitch Perfect, we see the Barden Bellas not stray too far from tradition early on. What song starts off their first three performances? As John Michael Higgins would say, “this number is like an elephant dart to the publics face”… “I remember singing it with my own acapella group, the menstrual cycles”
1717	I am the walrus by the Beatles	What nonsensical song, released in 1967, has literally no meaning, as the songwriters found out that university students were analyzing their lyrics, and wanted to throw them a curveball of a song with no meaning at all?
1718	Huey Louis and the News	Other than the Jackson Five, the only full band to join the ensemble of We are the World for Africa was what band? The front man of the band came after Daryl Hall and before Cyndi Lauper in the video, and can be heard here.
1719	Down at the drive in	If you’re Bryan Adams, and you’re in the summer of 1969, where did you meet the woman you had a fling with?
1720	Fun.	What band won the award of best new artist at the 2013 Grammy’s, beating out the Lumineers, Frank Ocean, and Alabama Shakes, only to “step away” from music just 18 months later? Lead singer Nate Ruess still is a popular songwriter, writing and appearing with Pink on her song “Just Give me a Reason”.
1721	Amy Winehouse	Who beat out Taylor Swift for new artist of the year at the Grammys in 2008? Wikipedia says that “said artist is known for her deep and expressive vocals, as well as her eclectic mix of musical genres, including soul, rhythm and blues, reggae, and jazz.”…
1722		
1723		
1724		
1725		
1726		
1727	Roberta Flack	The first (only other is Barbra Streisand) person to win consecutive Grammy’s for song of the year was who? Occurring in the years 1973 and 1974, this woman had songs titled The First Time I Ever Saw Your Face and Killing Me Softly with His Song.
1728	Eric church, Kacey Musgraves	Rolling stone magazine does not like the genre of country… on their rankings of best songs of the 21st century, only 2 crack the top 50. Please name either artist, one a man, with his song released in 2011, and the other a woman, with her song released in 2013.
1729		
1730		
1731	Iron Maiden	If you’re Wheatus, and you are a Teenage Dirtbag, what band do you listen to?
1732	Mary kate/Ashley olson, Daniel Radcliffe, Jaleel White, Johnathon taylor Thomas	Macauley Culkin just received his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, after a career of turmoil and triumph. VH1 ranked him at the number 2 spot for greatest child stars of all time, with Justin Bieber coming in at 1. Name one of the 5 child stars that follow Culkin on said list.
1733	Darius Rucker	Culkin, the recipient of the 2765th star, got his weeks after Gwen Stefani, and weeks before who received theirs? With albums like Learn to Live, Southern Style, and Charleston, SC, 1966, this person will embark on a US and Canadian tour in 2024, labeled “Summer camp with trucks”.
1734	Mr. Game and Watch	In the original Super Smash Bros Melee, what character graced the screens of us at home first, making their first appearance in 1980?
1735	Snoopy	The famous phrase “It was a dark and stormy night” is famous for being the opening line to the novel “A Wrinkle in Time”. What fictional character, who’s imagined persona is a world-famous author, starts his stories with “It was a dark and stormy night”?
1736	Steely Dan	Chevy Chase, known for his comedic endeavors like Christmas Vacation and Caddyshack, played in a college band called the Leather Canary. He was eventually kicked out of school after Reelin’ a cow to the top floor of his dorm, and was no longer able to play in the band. This band would eventually become what band, selling more than 40 million albums all time, and ranking 15th on VH1’s top duos of all time?
1737	Goulash	Countries that have diverse ethnic populations, like Mexico and China, have national dishes. For example, Canada has poutine. However, the United States does not have a specific national dish. The national dish of Hungary is described as having meat, stock, vegetables, noodles, paprika, and other eastern European spices. What is the name of this scary dish?
1738	Pooh Bear	I have very iconic memories of watching the Disney Sing Along Songbook movie when I was younger. There is a section of the sing along where they play a song called “Rumbly in my Tumbly”, where they showcase what character, saying they want something sweet?
1739	Atom	Following the big seven of the Justice League, we see the introduction of Green Arrow one year after the original comic was published. Name the next introduced character, who joined the team in 1962, whose real name is Ray Palmer, and joined the team after saving them from a booby-trapped bowling ball.
1740	Robin Thicke	When the Great One, Wayne Gretzky, found out he was being traded from the Edmonton Oilers to the LA Kings, he was babysitting as a favor to a friend. The kid he was babysitting would go on to write one of the most cringe worthy songs of the 21st century. Who was he babysitting at the time, who would end up having Hannah Montana twerk on him at the 2013 VMA’s?
1741	Greece, Cameroon, Slovenia, Serbia	Currently, the top 4 players from the NBA are all from different countries. Here are the flags for those four countries, for 5 points each, please name said countries.
1742	Jennifer Aniston	The first Ellen ever had on her show brought her a doormat with the word “Welcome” on the front. They also brought a doormat to Ellen on her last show, with the words “Thanks for the memories” on it, while also being the last guest on Ellen. Finally, they also hold the record for most appearances on Ellen overall. Who is this person?
1743	Dan Akroyd	When Michael from the office called Dwight an “ignorant slut”, he was calling back to an SNL skit called “Jane, you ignorant slut”. Jane Curtain played Jane, who played the person calling Jane the ignorant slut?
1744		
1745	Spider man far from home	Most of us know that Taylor Swift has a unique dating history, with some very famous names. The person who reportedly has the most songs written about him is an actor, with songs such as Babe, Bet you think about me, and All too well. What is this actors highest grossing movie?
1746	Pea	What food item can be found in the name of the work the musical “Once upon a mattress” is based on?
1747	Aerosmith	Helloooooo St. Louis!! What band was the first band to guest appear on the Simpsons, appearing at Flaming Moe’s on a late 1991 episode?
1748	Halle Berry	What actress played an ex-secretary to Cliff Vandercave in 1994, a bond girl 2002, and a spiced carbonated soft drink in 2017?
1749	Ohio	Theorists say what state is the most boring state, and attribute it to the fact that the state’s license plate says “The Birthplace of Aviation”, even though the first flight took place in Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, and that nothing else cool has happened in said state?
1750	17	If you’re playing against your competitive sister in the original battleship, and you finally sink her last ship…. You rub it in her face, throw some shade, tell her she has to sleep with the dogs tonight… after she runs away crying, you look at her ship layout. How many hits must you have to sink all of her ships and win the game?
1751	Mamma Mia	Surprisingly, the first sequel the acting powerhouse Meryl Streep ever starred in was released in 2018, 41 years after her film debut. What movie was this, with the subtitle “Here we go again”?
1752	Zoo	The first YouTube video ever released was a 19 second video of YouTube’s co-creator Jawed Karim at what type of establishment?
1753	Arizona State	On Sept 14, 1987, pope John Paul II visited the southwest United States, where the church planned to hold a mass at a university. This university was told to cover all signage and likeness of their mascot, Sparky, as it was offensive to the church. At what university’s football stadium did he hold this mass, with over 78,000 in attendance?
1754	John Belushi, John Candy, Chris Farley	The 1981 Pulitzer Prize winner, A Confederacy of Dunces, is considered to be the most “cursed” failed adaptation in Hollywood history. Director Harold Ramis tried to start filming the comedy three different times over five years, but the lead died before filming began three different times. Name these three actors, for 5 points each.
1755	Christopher Robin	One would find stuffed animals of a kangaroo, a bear, a pig, a donkey, and a tiger in an enclave in the back of the New York Public Library. Known by all, these stuffed animals belonged to whom?
1756	Petey Piranha and King Boo	Mario Kart Double Dash, the second best-selling GameCube game of all time, gave the player the ability to select two characters, not just one. Default partners included the usual suspects, like Mario/Luigi and Peach/Daisy, but by beating the Mirror Star Cup, the player was able to unlock what duo, both considered bad guys in the world of Mario?
1757	George Harrison	The first solo Beatle hit number 1 on the charts on April 9th, 1970. Name the Beatle whose song hit number 1, with the guitar intro heard here. For a bonus 5 points, name the song.
1758	Kansas City (chiefs, royals, monarchs)	The Sacramento Kings moved to Sacramento in 1985. What city did they call home before this, sharing a motif with other major teams in the area?
1759	Magic Tree House	If you’re currently reading Polar Bears Past Bedtime, just finished Lions at Lunchtime, and are looking forward to reading Day of the Dragon King, you are reading what book series?
1760	System of a Down	What band was the musical guest with host Johnny Knoxville on SNL in May 2005? The band played “BYOB” (Bring Your Own Bombs) in protest to the war in Iraq, and at the end of the performance, guitarist Daron Malakian leaned into the mic and said “F*ck, yeah”. This band has not been invited back to play.
1761	Luna	What otherworldly name climbed from #850 on the list of most popular girl names in 2000 to #9 in 2023? I’m sure it has something to do with that one book series written by JK Rowling….
1762	Tokyo	Including Ponte Del Piatto, Caillou, and Marufuku, what city holds the record for most Michelin starred restaurants in the world, with over 200? Go at sunrise, it’ll be way easier to get a table.
1763	Honey, I shrunk the audience	Being revamped and rethemed in 2009, what 1989 Disney movie had a theater-based attraction dedicated to it from 1998-2009? Featured at Disneyland’s Imagination Institute, the attraction was named after the movie it was based on and took the small audience on an immersive adventure.
1764	Maurice	What is the name of Joey’s imaginary friend in the TV show Friends? Rumor is he is a space cowboy, a gangster of love, and even some call him the Clown Prince of Crime…
1765	Jurassic Park, star wars episode 3, Django Unchained	Samuel L Jackson has been a staple in Hollywood since the early 1990s. he has died in 29 films in which he has starred in. For five points each, name the top 3 highest grossing films where Sam L Jackson has died; and no, dusting doesn’t count…
1766	K Mart	Ranked consistently as one of the funniest commercials of all time, the following sound clip was used as advertising for what company?
1767	Dave Matthews Band	Imagine riding on a sightseeing boat in the Chicago River in the middle of summer… life is good, wind in your hair, and, wait, human waste? On August 8th, 2004, a band was on it’s way to the Alpine Valley Music Theater in Wisconsin when they drove over a grated bridge in downtown Chicago, when the driver of the bus accidentally emptied the waste tank on the 120 passenger open top ship below. What band ended up having to pay $200,000 dollars to the EPA after said dumping incident?
1768	Wimbledon	Rolex, the brand known for making possibly the best watches in the world, has only one digital watch on the planet. At what worldwide establishment would you be able to find this digital Rolex watch?
1769	Bill Hader	What actor cameos as a police officer alongside Seth Rogen in 2007, plays General George Custer alongside Ben stiller in 2009, and lends his voice to a emotion filled Pixar movie in 2015?
1770	Faith Hill	Before 2023’s “Last Night” by Morgan Wallen, the last time a country singer ended the year with a song on top of the Billboard top 100 was the year 2000. Name this artist, with her album winning best country album at the Grammy’s in the year 2000.
1771	Oakland	According to data compiled by the IRS, four of the top five wealthiest zip codes found in the state of Michigan can be found in what county?
1772		
1773	JLO	With their iconic 2000 Grammy ceremony look, what celebrity is known to be the reason Google brough forth Google images, as the top inquiry was for photos of said outfit?
1774	Scrappy Doo	In the 2002 adaptation of Scooby Doo, we see the gang head to Spooky Island to investigate a series of paranormal incidents. What classic Scooby Doo character ends up being behind the freaky things happening on the island?
1775	Mariah Carey	Billboard named a single off the 2005 album “The Emancipation of Mimi” the top song of the 2000s, as it spent 15 weeks at the Billboard number 1 spot. Who won the honor of having their song be the song of the decade, giving said person the honor for the second straight decade?
1776	Rainforest café	What iconic 2000s restaurant, with only 23 remaining locations down from over 200, is the only sit-down restaurant on Disney World property with more than one location?
1777	Paul Frank	What clothing brand, created by an American cartoonist in the late 90s, peaked in the mid 2000s, and featured a nightmarish monkey with way too big of a mouth as its main design?
1778	Norah jones and Susan Boyle	When looking at the list of the top selling albums by year of the 2000s, the usual suspects seem to be absent… two talented women have the top selling album of the year, occurring in 2002 and 2009. One album has 12 songs, 11 of them covers, and the other won best album of the year and new artist of the year in 2003. Name either of these women for full points, the other for bonus 5.
1779	Orlando bloom	What actor or actress should get flowers, as he/she holds the title of being at the top of the list for adjusted box office leaders of the 2000s, starring in major movies in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2006, and 2007?
1780	Dance dance revolution	What game, released in 1998 but peaking in popularity in the early 2000s, has levels ranging from Beginner to Expert to Hero, and scoring with words like Marvelous, Perfect, Great, Good, Almost, and Boo? Known to be played by the likes of Fred Astaire and Mahatma Ghandi, this game was everywhere…
1781	Ron Artest and Sammy Sosa	Sports Illustrated ranked some of the best and worst moments of the 2000s, with both the best of the best and worst of the worst being relatively close to home. Who jumped into the crowd at the Palace in Auburn Hills to attack fans after a drink was thrown at him, and who ran into center field at Wrigley Field waving an American flag after the attacks on 9/11?
1782	Payless shoe store	Closing more stores than Toys R Us and Blockbuster combined, what store couldn’t outrun the competition and had to close the most locations, at over 2100 and 3 in Saginaw alone, after the internet boom of the late 2000s took place?
1783	Spike TV	Most Extreme Elimination Challenge, or MXC, was a reimaging of a Japanese game show, named Takeshi’s castle. It aired from 2003 to 2007 on what now defunct TV channel, with the motto “Get More Action”?
1784	Jack Black	In Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy, we see many celebrity cameos… but, the one people often glance over is the cameo where a man takes Ron Burgundy’s dog Baxter and proceeds to punt him off a bridge…. Please name the man who “Finn’s” Baxter after a burrito was thrown at his face. “That’s how I roll”!
1785	Neville Longbottom	In the viral YouTube sensation known as Potter Puppet Pals, we see the titular team as hand puppets with striking resemblance to the movie characters. However, one of the characters in the series is not a puppet, but instead a butternut squash. Please name this character.
1786	Oh brother where art thou	The last time a movie soundtrack won best album at the Grammy’s was in the year 2002, for a movie starring George Clooney, Tim Blake Nelson, and John Goodman. Please name this movie, with the album produced by country bluegrass legend Alison Krause.
1787	Beijing	Considered one of the greatest moments in sports history, Jason Lezak pulled off the incredible to beat Alain Bernard at the last moment. As Sports Illustrated said, “Lezak showed unlikely actors can deliver big performances”. In what city did this historic event take place?
1788	Madonna	The only woman to crack the 5 top grossing concert tours of the 2000s was on her “Sticky and Sweet” tour from late 2008 to the end of 2009. Please name this artist, who was on tour promoting her eleventh album, Hard Candy, with stops in Michigan in Detroit, Grand Rapids, and Bay City.
1789	Wet Seal	Having closed a location in the Saginaw Mall, what fast fashion retailer closed all their stores by the early 2010’s? Competing with brands such as Charlotte Russe and forever 21, the name of this company came from the founder seeing a bikini at a fashion show that resembled the name he would eventually give the store… my dad said the name was “kinky”.
1790		
1791		
1792	An anvil	In Arthurian myth, King Arthur had two swords. Clarent, the sword of peace, and Excalibur, the sword of war. Excalibur is the sword most know from the myths, and according to these myths, Arthur pulled the sword from what?
1793	Frank Sinatra	On May 14th, 1998, the finale of Seinfeld graced the screens of more than 80 million viewers. Due to this, an ambulance carrying a sick person made it to the hospital in record time, as there were no Strangers in the Night on the road. What icon died the night of the Seinfeld finale?
1794	Penguin	After the T-rex was retired in the year 2023, there would only be three animals featured as Monopoly game pieces. Now, word on the street is Tennessee Tuxedo is a fan of this move, as now the only animal tokens are the Scottish Terrier, the cat, and what other animal?
1795	X Files	The Scully Effect, a theory where the increase in women that pursue a career in STEM fields and/or currently work in a STEM field, can be attributed to what 1990s TV show?
1796	Black eyed peas	“The worst. Just the worst. Watching at the time, you instantly knew you were witnessing something magical and special – like seeing a unicorn cough up blood. Not so cool! Usher looked like he wanted to hide. Then the tragic words: “Ladies and gentlemen . . . the one and only . . . Slash!” Oh Slash, poor Slash – duetting with ______ to “Sweet Child o’ Mine.” How did this happen? This was the same Super Bowl where Christina Aguilera did her memorable interpretation of the National Anthem, so yeah, music had a rough day. So did Steelers fans.”
1797	Hobgoblin	Many actors and actresses get into voice acting after starring in a very prominent role, as Hollywood cannot see them in any other role. For example, Mark Hamill did the voice of the Joker in the Batman animated series. His second most famous role is what other supervillain, named Roderick Kingsley, a mad scientist that lives in the Spider-Man universe?
1798	Saints, cowboys, colts	Of the major four sports, only a handful of logos are symmetrical. The league with the most symmetrical logos is the NFL, with 3. For 5 points each, name these symmetrical logos.
1799	Turtle	In Middle Eastern myth, the Zaratan is an enormous creature that houses large ecosystems on their backs, being able to transport them from place to place. What type of animal was a Zaratan?
1800	George Michael	Falling between Simon and Garfunkel and Dire Straits in albums sales, what late 2023 Rock n Roll Hall of Fame inductee is the only person to be inducted in 2023 to make the list of top 75 selling artists of all time, selling just over 90! million albums?
1801	Cabaret	After seeing Josh Groban sign off from his last show of Sweeny Todd on Broadway, I inquired about other current celebrities on Broadway. Best actor award winner Eddie Redmayne stars as the emcee for what Broadway show?
1802	Mastodon	Over the course of the 21st century, fossils of a certain megafauna have been found across the state of Michigan in high quantity. Due to this, Michigan has made it the state fossil. Known for short, straight tusks, the state fossil is what extinct animal?
1803	Man! I feel like a woman! By Shania twain	Billboard ranked the top karaoke songs of all time… in preparation for Baynes Apple Valley karaoke night this Saturday from 7-9…. The number one song on the list is described as a “crowd pleaser” and not “just reserved for the women”, as Harry Styles proved at Coachella last year. Name this song, released in the late 1990s.
1804	Kowloon	Sharing the same name with the Call of Duty map seen here, the highest density of people living in the same area was demolished in 1994. At the time of demolition, the settlement averaged 33,000 people per city block. Please name this settlement.
1805	Doctor Who	“An unearthly child”, the first episode of one of the longest running TV shows of all time, had to be aired twice, as President John F Kennedy was assassinated the day the show originally premiered. What show, the longest running sci-fi show of all time, had to release its pilot twice?
1806	Spongebob Squarepants the musical	Quite possibly the most stacked musical ensemble of all time, what Broadway musical had the likes of Steven Tyler, Cyndi Lauper, Plain White T’s, and John Legend record songs like BFF, Daddy Knows Best, and Best Day Ever? Featuring characters like Old Man Jenkins and Perch Perkins, this musical debuted in 2018 and is still on Broadway today.
1807	Jason Richardson and Charles Rodgers	The final Saginaw High Vs Arthur Hill basketball game takes place tomorrow at the Dow Event Center. On Feb 22, 1999, they played at the then Civic Center, and were ranked no. 2 and no. 3 respectively. Future Mr. Basketball got outplayed by a future NFL player, who we lost way too soon. Name these two athletes.
1808		
1809	Costume Design	Edith Head, the woman with the most Oscar wins, 8, in the history of the show, won for what category?
1810		
1811		
1812	7	In early 2024, we saw a 13-year-old beat Tetris for what is believed to be the first time. In total, how many unique Tetris pieces were included in the original game?
1813	Legoland, Knotts Berry Farm	In southern California, within an hour’s drive of one another, one can find 5 major theme parks. Disney World, Universal Studios, and Six Flags Santa Clara. Name the other two for five points each, one with lands such as “The Beginning, Fun Town, and Miniland USA”, and the other with the towering “Ghostrider” looming above you as you enter, as well as Snoopy land, similar to Cedar Point?
1814	Al Capone	This photo is of a home called “Heartsease”, which could be found 3 miles south of Leland, Michigan, at the end of a private drive called “Birdsong Lane”. What infamous American called this place his second home in the summertime, as some others do from his home?
1815	Zach Galifianakis	“Live at the Purple Onion” was the first Netflix original special ever produced. What comedian performed for this purple special, opening up with the joke “My name is ______ ____________, I hope I’m pronouncing that right”?
1816	Fabulous	Since it’s founding, the Las Vegas strip has been hailed as one of the most visited tourist attractions in the world. That of course includes the sign, which reads “Welcome to ___________ Las Vegas”?
1817	Linda Ronstadt	The TV show “The Last of US” was nominated 3 times at the Emmy’s Monday evening. Though it did not win, Nick Offerman did win a primetime Emmy for his role in the bottle episode “Long, Long Time”. The title of the episode shares the name with a song he plays on the piano during the episode. Much like Kate Busch’s “Running Up That Hill”, the song made a resurgence on the charts after being featured in the episode. Who wrote and recorded that song in 1970, off the album “Silk Purse”?
1818	Lincoln, Austin, Jackson	Three names appear on the list of most popular baby names for 2023 that share their name with a state capital. For five points each, name them.
1819	Idlewild	JFK airport in NYC was originally supposed to be called what? It would’ve shared its name with a town 30 miles east of Ludington, the place where African Americans congregated during the Jim Crowe era… aka “Black Vegas”.... the term also refers to a “place or time of leisure and relaxation”.
1820	NASA	Nicknamed Hans and Frans, the ones who want to “pump you up”, the two largest vehicles ever produced are used by what American organization?
1821	Warriors and Knights	According to MasseyRatings, the list of the 10 most popular high school mascots consists of 5 big cats, 1 bird, 1 dog, 1 horse, and 2 humans. For five points each, name the 2 human mascots found on this list.
1822	Build a bear workshop	Represented by the stock symbol BBW, what mall-based store was founded by Maxine Clark in 1997, has over 400 locations, and is considered to be a perfect date spot?
1823	Palpatine, Sauron, Luke, Snape	For five points each, who is the Phantom Menace? Who is the Lord of the Rings? Who is the Lightning Thief Who is the Half Blood Prince?
1824	Mackinaw Island	Most people know that Yellowstone National Park was the first national park ever established in the United States, but what was the second? This park was reworked to be a state park due to the increase of popularity during the summertime and is still operated as such.
1825	October	According to Bleacher Report, what month is the best month for sports lovers everywhere? Rivalries everywhere, new beginnings, old traditions….
1826	Ruby slippers, hope diamond, Faberge eggs, Stradivarius violin	Of the top 10 most expensive items ever stolen, four of them are not paintings. Two can be found in the Smithsonian, with one in the natural history museum and the other in the American history museum. One of the items can be found in the Kremlin, and the fourth still hasn’t been found. For 5 points each, name these items.
1827	Werewolf	If your father is Frankenstein, and your mother is a vampire, what kind of child are you?
1828	Gromit, courage the cowardly dog	In 1995, short film “A Close Shave” won over “A Chicken from Outer Space” for best animated short. Both shorts were the debut of two famous dogs. Name either.
1829		
1830	98 Degrees	Before appearing on the guilty-pleasure trash TV show “Love Is Blind”, TV personality Nick Lachey came to fame being a part of what boy band, with the single “Invisible Man” of their 1997 debut album reaching number one on the Billboard Hot 100?
1831	Osiris	Released in 1996, what fad shoe brand, known for the large tongue on the top of the shoe, made models like Clone, Uptown, and Bronx? I can say with a certainty the Egyptian god of death probably wears them…
1832	Banjo-Kazooie	Considered by many to be perfect from start to finish, including Steve Martin, what game comes in at number 10 on the best-selling N64 games of all time, where the goal of the game is to save your sister, Tooty, from the evil witch, Gruntilda Winkybunion?
1833	Bill Murray, Wayne Knight	Alongside Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Michael Jordan, and of course every boy’s crush growing up Lola Bunny, what two humans join them on the Toon Squad in Space Jam?
1834	Tina Turner	We all know Taylor Swift was simply the best in 2023 with her “Eras” tour, grossing over a billion dollars worldwide. However, someone already had the name “Wildest Dreams” for a tour back in the 90s. Coming in at number 9 on the list for highest grossing concert tours of the 90s, name this artist.
1835	Fabio Lanzoni	What celebrity can be seen breaking out of his stone statue in a “Can’t believe it’s not butter” commercial, heard here? Said person was probably happy they were recording a commercial and not on a rollercoaster…
1836	Umbro	Known for ruling the early nineties, the brand with the logo seen here was known for short shorts, some so short that the boxers would stick out the end!
1837	Santana	Beating out fan favorite albums like “Fly” by the Dixie Chicks, “Millennium” by the Backstreet Boys, and “Fanmail” by TLC, what artist won the award for album of the year at the 1999 Grammy’s? With help from Cee Lo Green, Lauryn Hill, Eric Clapton, and Rob Thomas, this album would end up taking home 9 awards that night.
1838	Gargoyles	Characters like Goliath, Hudson, Brooklyn, Lexington, Broadway, and Bronx are all characters that can be found in what 90s animated TV show?
1839	Gak	What was the name of the Nickelodeon endorsed slime that was considered “super stretch”, came in multiple different colors, and was used to kill time for kids all over the country?
1840	Brandi Chastain	After beating China in penalty kicks in the final of the 1999 FIFA World Cup at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California, what soccer player would proceed to take her jersey off, slide on the ground, and create what Sports Illustrated ranks as the most iconic sports photos of the 90s?
1841	Tony Bennett	The Simpsons craze was alive and well all throughout the nineties… who was the first celebrity to star as themselves in the show, appearing in the season 2 episode “Dancin Homer”, singing the song “Capital City”? We unfortunately lost this star in 2023, at the age of 96.
1842	Mighty morphin Power rangers	The 90s were a time of cringeworthy sci fi movies that are quite entertaining to go back and watch. My favorite of them all was released in the year 1995, where the main baddy, Ivan Ooze, has to squash his enemies using slime creatures, lightning, warthogs, and talking raven thingys. Name this movie.
1843	Wallaby	Associated with urban and prep circles, what type of shoe featured a crepe sole, which made little to no noise, and shares its name with a small, adorable animal found in Australia and New Zealand?
1844	Reba McEntire	On March 16th, 1991, a plane carrying eight members of a band crashed into Olay mountain near San Diego. The singer of the band was not on the plane. She would end up releasing a tribute album, labeled “For My Broken Heart”, in 1991, post crash. Name this legendary singer, who you normally see these days now more than ever.
1845		
1846	Sheboygan	1. The Kenosha Kickers, the Polka powerhouse with front man Gus Polinski at the helm, gave Kate McCallister a ride to Chicago after she couldn’t find a flight to Chicago. Gus tells Kate that they sold 623 copies of their album, with the top song “Polka Polka Polka”, in what US city, which shares its name with a town in Michigan?
1848	Tulsa	2. The smallest division one school that participates in NCAA football have the mascot of the Golden Hurricane. What school holds this title, and if you don’t know, ask Chandler Bing, as he spends a fair amount of time there…
1850	White Castle	3. Considered by many to be the first fast food restaurant, what restaurant began in 1916 in Wichita, Kansas? Don’t be surprised if you see NPH on ecstasy in the back…
1852	Horton	4. Two of the first three books Dr. Suess published were about what character?
1854	Bill Paxton	5. Seen here on screen is the high school yearbook photo of the only person killed by a terminator, a xenomorph, and a predator… name this actor.
1856	Oregon	6. In a 2012 interview, Simpsons creator Matt Groening hinted at the fact that one could visit the actual Springfield the show is based on, if they visited what state? This state also shares its state nickname with one of their state university’s mascot…
1858	The scream	7. In 1990, 13 pieces of art were stolen from Boston’s Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum. What is the name of the most famous piece that was taken, painted by Edvard Munch, and is also debatably his most famous piece?
1860	Banshee	8. A “Woman of the fairy mound” is a female spirit in Gaelic/Celtic folklore that is said to inform the family when someone in said family will die soon. Sharing their name with a superhero from Marvel comics, what is the more common name for a “Woman of the fairy mound”?
1862	Crash Bandicoot	9. Other than Nintendo properties, a Final Fantasy game, and a racing game called Gran Turismo, the top 15 best-selling video games of the 90s is rounded out by a game based on a character who can be described as a nocturnal marsupial omnivore native to the Oceania part of the world. What is the name of this game?
1863	Where the Wild Things Are	According to the New York Public Library, the adorable children's book "the Snowy Day" is the most checked out in its system, followed by Cat in the Hat and George Orwell's 1984. The illustrations for the book that follows 1984 is currently the most expensive piece Rick from Pawn Stars has ever bought on the show. Name the children's book that follows The Snowy Day, Cat in the Hat, and 1984.
1864	Delaware	The only state that anyone can't fly to or from in the United States is what state, with the largest town being Wilmington?
1865	Billy Crystal	Who was Jay Leno's first guest, appearing on his first show in 1992? He would join Garth Brooks on Leno's last show in 2014 to sing "So Long, Farewell" along with Chris Paul and Jack Black. During Jay's first show, the guest probably stopped by in between rehearsals at the Oscars…
1867	Brother bear	Famously, Phil Collins wrote and performed the songs on the Tarzan soundtrack. He also wrote and performed the soundtrack to one other Disney film, with song titles "No Way Out" and "Look Through My Eyes". Name this movie.
1868	LMFAO	The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame ranked every number one song from 2010-2020 from best to worst. The ranked worst song charted in 2012, and stayed there for 2 weeks, as well as spawning a major meme trend. Name the band that performs this song, who happen to be nephews of Barry Gordie, the man who started Motown. Barry wouldn’t be happy, I know it.
1869	Kevin Bacon	If you’re Steve Martin, and you NEED to grab a taxi to get home for Thanksgiving in Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, who is racing you for the cab you had your eye on? The man who beat him to the taxi was either on his way to Bomont, Texas, his yacht, the Caspartina, or to get to Nowhere…
1870	Her thumb in the shape of an L	If you’re Smash Mouth, and if you think a woman is looking kind of dumb, she has what atop her forehead?
1871	Narnia	If you were inside a dream, were transported to a land where you meet a woman named Jadis, a beaver and his wife named Mr. and Mrs. Beaver, and a giant named Rumblebuffin, where would you be? Just don’t pull a flick…
1872	Betelgeuse	What is the name of the star that is known as the hunter’s armpit, as well as has the distinction of the tenth brightest star in the night sky? Just don’t say its name, it can’t be named…
1873	Cape Cod	The average 19-year old girl with a crappy New York fake ID usually orders a vodka cranberry at the bar because she wants to get “white girl wasted”. However, she can sound a little more sophisticated by ordering a what, which is a cocktail with vodka, cranberry juice, and lime juice? The cocktail shares its name with a place in the US famous for its wharf’s, lighthouses, and is home to one of ten national seashores found in the US.
1874	Twilight Zone Tower of Terror	Seen here, this psycho of a man undressed on a broken down It’s a Small World in Disney World this past weekend. Thrillist ranks the most ridden/most popular rides for Disney World, with It’s a Small World ranking at number 4. What ride/attraction ranks highest on the list that is still operational?
1875	7	How many total planets does the audience visit in the original Star Wars trilogy of movies?
1876	Addams family	The best-selling pinball game ever produced was designed and released in the early 1990s. With side quests such as Mamushka, Séance, and Tunnel Hunt, what franchise was the game based off of?
1877	Tasmanian Devil	What animal has the most powerful bite in reference to its size? IE, the smallest body with the biggest bite… these animals are not one to mess with, unless you play music, which is known to calm the animal, but, do NOT play bagpipes…
1878	Leonard Nimoy	Matthew Perry’s last tweet is sparking controversy with people making claims he had planned his death, which is unfair to him and his fans. However, sometimes celebrities last tweets are positive, and act almost as a send off to their life. Whose last tweet is seen here?
1879	Dumbledore, Ron, Hermione, Harry potter	In one of the most viral YouTube videos of all time, we see that Voldemort was the culprit behind planting a mysterious ticking pipe bomb at Hogwarts. Before we find this out, we see Severus Snape break out into song. Rank the four characters seen here in order of when they join Snape in singing before the pipe bomb goes off.
1880	Washington Bullets	Led by Elvin Hayes, what sports team was the last team to win a championship under a name that is no longer used? It occurred in 1978, and the team still exists today in the same city, but under a different name.
1881	Colt 45 malt liqueur	Billy Dee Williams, known for playing Lando Calrissian in the Star Wars films, used to be the celebrity image for what brand? He used to sell it from here to Hong Kong with Cheech and Chong…
1882	Shania Twain	On top of the list of albums with over 50 million copies sold, you have powerhouses such as Thriller, Back in Black, Dark Side of the Moon, among many more popular others. Who released the album on said list that is the most recently released, released in 1997, along with her other albums Up!, On the Way, and Beginnings?
1883	Coyote	In native American myth, what animal is associated with creating the moon phases, and is mostly known as the embodiment of their trickster god?
1884	Ralph Finnes	What actor plays a fancy concierge in 2014, a fancy butler in 2017, and a fancy leader of the SIS in 2012?
1885	Baked Alaska	What dessert dish is made up of ice cream lined with Christmas pudding, and topped with vanilla meringue? One can even serve it with a joint sticking out of it.
1886	Sesame Street	Soap operas dominate the televisions of elderly women who live in retirement villages off Shattuck road… Days of our lives and General hospital have both been on since the mid 60s. ranking at third, what tv show is the longest running tv show, that is still on today, that isn’t considered a soap opera?
1887	Indiana State, Larry Bird	The most watched college basketball game of all time took place in 1979, where we saw magic Johnson lead his Spartans over the sycamores of what university?
1888	Klinger	Who stays behind in Korea in the TV show MASH?
1889	Guns and Roses	In the top 5 highest grossing music tours of all time, 4 of the 5 are British bands or singers. We see the likes of Elton John, U2, Ed Sheeran, and the Rolling Stones. What group joins them, and holds the record for the highest grossing tour by an American band, spanning 2016 – 2019, called Not in this Lifetime, and including openers such as Chris Stapleton, Alice in chains, and Skrillex?
1890	Sound of music, singing in the rain	The American film institutions top 50 films of all time includes 2 musicals. What are they, where one led by a woman, one led by a man?
1891	Maryland	What state has the highest coastline to area ratio? IE, the most coastline to the least amount of area?
1892	Oh! The places you’ll go!	What book was the last book published by Dr Seuss in his lifetime, and climbs exponentially on his bestsellers list at a certain time each year?
1893	Snoopy	The most reoccurring balloon in the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day parade is what character, who debuted a new balloon in 2019 labeled “Beagle Scout”, and has appeared 41 times since the year 1968?
1894	Druid	What D&D class gets its named from the ancient Celtic cultures, regarding a person who is deeply connected with the natural world, and are considered the mages of the forest?
1895	Hulk, Lou Ferrigno	In his last competition, Arnold Schwarzenegger would smash his competitor, and become Mr. Olympia 1974. What prominent TV/movie character did the person he beat play?
1896	Paul McCartney	In the famed album cover for Abbey Road, seen here, what Beatles member is seen barefoot, sparking conspiracy theorists to believe he was dead at the time of the release?
1897	San Jose, Columbus, San Antonio	For 5 points each, name two of the top three us cities in terms of population that only have one major 4 sports team.
1898	Tulane	James Madison University, located in Virginia, just set the record for the biggest turnout for college gameday in history, and it sure looked like a party. Speaking of that, when looking at best party schools in the nation, what school, whose mascot’s name is Riptide, consistently ranks in the top 3, among the likes of ASU and Wisconsin?
1899	Felix the cat	The first Macy’s Thanksgiving balloon was of what animated character, known by many as the first animated film star, who was also known for his catch phrase, “Righty-o!”?
1900	Shillelagh	Whether you’re a Notre Dame fan, or a downtown Detroit bar-hopper, you’d probably know that the traditional gentleman’s weapon used in Irish duels, known for its large-knobbed top, is called what?
1901	Jackie Chan, Bruce Li	in the first Pokémon games, Red and Blue, you meet these four fine folks at the end of the game, known as the Elite Four. In these fights, each throw five Pokémon at you to face. Two of the twenty Pokémon are based on real life people, name either of the people these two Pokémon are based off.
1902	Host SNL five times	The “Smoking Jacket club”, with members such as John Goodman, Sting, Alec Baldwin, and the newest member Emma Stone, is one of the most exclusive clubs in pop culture. How does one become part of the Smoking Jacket club?
1903	Zanzibar	Billy Joel sings a song about him trying to pick up a waitress in a sports bar, where he has things such as a jazz guitar and an old man’s car. The name of this song shares its name with the area in which Freddie Mercury was born. Name the place the lead singer of queen was born.
1904	Big cats	It is well known knowledge that the current Mac operating systems are named after landmarks in California, the backyard of Apple… Sonoma, Ventura, Big Sur, Yosemite… but, before this, from 2002 – 2012, Mac operating systems were named after what?
1905	Yoda	Weird Al Yankovic is a master of the parody… songs like Gangsters Paradise turn into an Amish satire at the flip of a switch… the song Lola by the Kinks he parodies to make fun of what character?
1906	Andy Richter	Becky Lynch, an Irish pro wrestler, holds the title of being the only person to not get a single answer right on jeopardy, which occurred last week on Celebrity Jeopardy. There is a large consensus that what contestant, born in Grand Rapids and his yearbook photo seen here, is the best celebrity jeopardy player of all time. Who is this gentleman, mostly known as a sidekick?
1907	Dracula	It has been a bonus question in the past where I asked what character is the most portrayed character in fiction history, with the answer being Sherlock Holmes. However, what non-human character is the most portrayed in history?
1908	New York	The largest piece of protected US land, larger than the Grand Canyon, Yosemite, and the Everglades combined, can be found in what state? You may find some pretty cool Olympic memorabilia there, too…
1909	Cruella de Ville	Jasper and Horace, lesser-known Disney villains, are henchmen to what more well-known Disney baddie?
1910	Pedro Pascal, Lenny Kravitz	1. People’s magazine just named Patrick Dempsey, AKA McDreamy, People’s sexiest man alive, ahead of the likes of Jamie Foxx, Usher, Jason Kelce, Shawn Coughlin, Timothe Chalmette, and what two other celebrities, with their yearbook photos seen here?
1911	Guy Fiery	2. The Rocky Mountain Vibes, who play independent baseball in Colorado Springs, Colorado, quite possibly hold the title of best minor league baseball logos. Their alternate logo is seen here, but their main logo resembles what celebrity as a smore, with a marshmallow rocking sunglasses, shorts, and a flaming hair do?
1912	Order of the Phoenix	3. The Greek equivalent to the United States Presidential Medal of Freedom shares its name with part of a title from the Harry Potter book series. What is the name of the Greek medal?
1913	Nitty Gritty Dirt Band	4. Jackson Browne, musician and song writer known for his songs “Somebody’s baby” and “Running on empty” for Fast Times at Ridgemont High and Forrest Gump respectively, got his start with what band? The band shares part of its name with a major sports mascot that made its debut in 2018 and has been known for its meme heavy chaotic nature.
1914	Ikea	5. The Night’s Watch, the brave men who watch over the wall in the north in Game of Thrones, must keep warm during the long, cold, winter. Their cloaks, which is a major part of their costume, are made from used rugs from what retailer, that, on average, has the highest square feet per location in the United States?
1915	The beast	6. The presidential state car, aka the vehicle that transports the Commander in Chief, is currently a custom Cadillac limousine. This vehicle has what nickname, that shares its nickname with the two individuals seen here?
1916	REO Speed wagon	7. What band got inspiration for its name when the founding member, Neal Doughty, walked into his history class at the University of Illinois, and saw the name Ransom Eli Olds, the founder of Oldsmobile, written on the chalkboard? As a hint, Neal added one of the first models of Oldsmobile on the back end of their band name, too….
1917	Norse	8. The days of the week draw their names from what mythology? Examples include Tyr, a god of war, lending its name to Tuesday, Frigg, a goddess of love, lending its name to Friday, and Sol, a goddess of the sun, lending its name to Sunday.
1918	The devil went down to Georgia	9. The first two bosses of Guitar Hero three are Tom Morello, of Rage against the Machine fame, and Slash, from Guns N’ Roses. However, If you’re battling the man seen here, what song would you be playing?
1919	Dystopian/Dystopia	10. In the year 2023, Scrabble added 500 new words to its repertoire, including my favorites, dumbass and pube. What eight letter word description word was added, and can be attributed to fictional worlds such as Panem, and stories such as Maze Runner, Lord of the Flies, Blade runner, and the Purge?
1920	Casino	11. Of the 10 largest buildings by square foot in the world, only one is privately owned, IE not an airport or owned by a government entity. Ranking tenth on the list is a building owned by a company headquartered in NYC but the building itself is located in a self-governing special administrative region of Asia, which happens to be the most densely populated area in the world. What type of building is the tenth largest building in the world?
1921	John Cena	12. What celebrity, known for having a drastic career change from one industry to another, holds the record for most Make a Wish wishes granted? However, not many people could probably prove this, as he doesn’t show up in photos…
1922	Jack in the box	13. What fast food chain, that shares its name with a toy that was inducted into the toy hall of fame in the year 2005, is the largest chain in the United States that doesn’t have a location in Michigan?
1923	Battlestar Galactica	14. What TV show is famous for getting around the “no cursing” clause for made for families shows, by using the word “frak” instead of f*ck? It may be beneficial to note that the show doesn’t have ursine animals wandering about eating red root vegetables…
1924	Bob Dylan	15. Rolling Stone ranks what songwriter at number one on their list for best songwriter of all time? This person wrote in their memoir titled “Chronicles” that “You want to write songs that are bigger than life”, including Adele’s Make You Feel My Love and Wagon Wheel by Old Crow Medicine Show.
1925	Poptart	16. The Nyan cat, a meme that peaked in 2011 and 2012, features an animated cat pooing rainbows… the cats body, that is colored in in the photo seen here, is made of what type of treat?
1926	James Brolin	17. The first James Bond movie where an American was originally slated to play the role was 1983’s Octopussy, until the actor was dropped for Roger Moore. What actor, who shares the same first name as the spy, was originally slated to play the role? He is famous for roles in West World and the Amityville Horror, but is probably more famous for breeding a great snapper…
1927	Freaks and Geeks	What tv show that only lasted 18 episodes started the career of prolific actors such as Seth Rogen, James Franco, and Jason Segel? Episode names include Disco’s and Dragons, Carded and Discarded, and Tests and Breasts…
1928	Easy Bake Oven	The Thing Maker, also known as the Creepy Crawler Creator, was the male counterpart to what toy, created by Hasbro?
1929	Slimer	Posthumous celebrity likeness in movies is very common, especially when it comes to friends of the actor/actress who had passed. For example, John Belushi passed too young, in the year 1982 at the age of 33. His friends wanted to honor him after his passing, and they created a movie character that they say resembled his “likeness”. This character graced the big screens in 1984, and had what name?
1930	Prestige	As any magician would know, there are three key parts to a trick. The pledge, which involves the magician making a claim and showing the audience something, like a dove, the turn, where the magician does something to the item, like make it disappear, and what third term? The term shares its name with a 2006 film starring Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman, as well as a promotion technique in Call of Duty.
1931	Philadelphia	If you’re rocking like a wagon wheel, and you’re walking south out of a Virginia city, what sports team does the truck drive you meet probably root for?
1932	Queen	Released in 1991, the song “The Show Must Go On” was the last track on the album Inuendo, an album by what band, chronicling the last ditch effort by the lead singer to perform before succumbing to death?
1933	Charlie horse, butterflies in the stomach	In the Hasbro skill-based game known as Operation, we see body parts have to be extracted using plyers, using patience and steady fingers. Name one of the two pieces that needed to be extracted that had an animal in its name.
1934	Dark N Stormy	There are many variations to the common cocktail known as the Moscow Mule, including the English mule, which replaces vodka with gin, and the Kentucky mule, which replaces vodka with bourbon. What is the name of the cocktail that replaces vodka with dark rum, and still consists of ginger beer and lime juice?
1935	Zorro	The first superhero/comic book film ever released was released in 1920, with a remake following it in 1940. Two more films followed in 1958 and 1959. More films about this character have been released since then 1959, with the most recent coming in 2005, with the character being played by the person who voices another masked crusader, Puss in Boots. Name this superhero.
1936	MLK Jr, Albert Einstein	Washington DC holds the title for most statues in a city in the world, with most of them focusing on historical moments and historical figures. Name the two statues found in DC dedicated to people that aren’t presidents.
1937	Shambhala	In Tibetan Buddhist tradition, what is the name of the spiritual kingdom that people reach when they achieve enlightenment, and lends its name to a song sung by a band with a number, an animal, and a time of day in the name of their band?
1938	The verve	What band settled a dispute with the Rolling Stones in 2019 over royalty fees of their hit single, Bittersweet Symphony, and now receives all of the royalties from the song used in all mediums?
1939	Tim Horton	What is the last name of one of the top 100 hockey players of all time, playing 6 straight years in every single season NHL game for the Toronto Maple Leafs, played 18 years total, and even started a bakery on the side in the year 1964? This gentleman is someone we all know and love hole-heartedly, but he tragically passed in a car accident in 1974.
1940	Ghostbusters and Gremlins	Pretty famously, big movies have been released on the same day as each other a handful of times. The Matrix and Ten Things I Hate About You, the Thing and Bladerunner, and what two films, both released on June 8th, 1984, and both having the plot tags with Horror, Comedy, and Fantasy?
1941	Crosby, stills, and Nash	What is the only band inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame that sees all three of its members inducted with different bands? The other bands that the group in question pulls from is the Birds, Buffalo Springfield, and the Hollies, and their album covers can be seen here.
1942	Hippopotamus	What non reptilian animal was considered an invasive species in Columbia after Pablo Escobar had some escape from his estate, and bred offspring? These animals kill the most humans per year, after mosquitoes and snakes.
1943	John Candy	John Hughes, director of incredible movies such as Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, Home Alone, Ferris Buellers day off, and the Breakfast Club, suddenly stopped directing films in the year 1992. He had come out to say that he decided to boycott Hollywood, due to the feeling you need to continue to work to make it big, which causes stress and anxiety, and ultimately that took the life of his best friend. Name John Hughes best friend.
1944	Ice	With only 58 total Pokémon, what type is the rarest of all 18 types, and has Pokémon including Glalie, Cubchoo, Vulpix, and Walrein among it’s ranks?
1945	Butte	A mesa is a flat top mountain geologic feature in which the length of the rock is longer than it is high off the ground. Contradictory, what is the name of the geologic feature that has a flat top, but is taller than it is wide?
1946	Portland	Cities sometimes have their nicknames on the front of their sport team jerseys… what US city goes by the nicknames “the City of Roses” and “Rip City”?
1947	Clown	Young Michael Myers can be seen wearing what traditional Halloween costume when he commits his first kill at the age of 6 in the original Halloween, released in 1978?
1948	Popeye the sailor	Nintendo didn’t have Mario and Donkey Kong slated for the original Donkey Kong game, as they weren’t able to capture the licensing rights of their original targets. The original concept was going to have a person named Bluto at the top, throwing barrels, at what early 20th century nautical character?
1949		
1950		
1951		
1952		
1953	Russia	In the Friends Halloween episode, we see Chandler dress as a pink bunny, Phoebe dress up as Supergirl, Monica dress up as Catwoman. Ross’s costume was gimmicky, but resembled a real life item built by what country?
1954	Yellow	Crayola Crayon colors have come and gone over the years. Colors such as Amber Waves, Bug, and Presidential Seal are all close to what primary/secondary color?
1955	Milwaukee Deep	The deepest point in the world’s oceans is called Challenger Deep. However, the deepest point in only the Atlantic Ocean shares its name with a US city. This city gets its name from the Potawatomi language, and has landmarks such as Harley Davidson headquarters, the Pabst theater, and the Fiserv Forum. Name the deepest part of the Atlantic.
1956	Memphis	Hartsfield Jackson Atlanta airport is the busiest airport in the world in terms of passengers, and has been ranked that for many years in a row. What US airport holds the title as the second busiest airport when it comes to cargo traffic, second to Hong Kong, as it is the hub of Fed Ex?
1957	Wonder woman	Hot Wheels released a limited edition “invisible” plane, that can be found with what fictional character gracing the packaging?
1958	Utah and west virginia	Name the state with the highest percentage of population growth over the past 10 years, and the state with the highest percent of population decline. One has the highest birth rate of any state, the other has the highest decline of natural resources across all the US.
1959	Icarus	The Greek Hellenic air force trains their pilots in the city of Thessaloniki. The school for which these pilots are trained are named after what mythological character, as one should never fly far away from ones allies?
1960	Toto	The composer John Williams, known for his scores of Star Wars, Jurassic Park, and many others, has a son who leads what pop band, whose only written and performed movie score is for the movie poster seen here? Said band also lends its name to a literary character…
1961	Starling	What invasive species, known to outcompete other birds for nesting spaces, came from Great Britain, and was introduced to Central Park in 1890?
1962	Savannah, GA	Known for its ghost tours, what US city is ranked number one as the most haunted American city, and boasts landmarks such as Moon River Brewing Company, and the Marshall House? They’re very much known for their Belles, Bourbon, and Bullets as well…
1963	Mexico	The largest pyramid in the world, known as the Great Pyramid of Cholula, can be found in what country?
1964	Iowa	Seen here is a map of the major rivers of the continental united states. Only one state holds the distinction of having rivers being both its eastern and western border. Name said state.
1965	Turnip	Released on October 9th, 1988, Super Mario 2 introduced a now staple when it comes to throwing items. What human food did this game introduce to the game, where it could be picked up and thrown to defeat enemies, and is still found in games to this day?
1966	Everybody loves Raymond	The Office reshaped the comedy TV show game forever in 2005, and concepts like the laugh track ceased to exist soon thereafter. What tv show with a laugh track was the last tv show to win an Emmy for best comedy show, which coincidentally occurred in 2005?
1967	Wizard and ranger	In the four sports, there are 2 team names that coincide with Dungeons and Dragons class names. Name them.
1968	Bats	The US military developed a weapon to take advantage of wood laden homes in the Pacific in WW2. This weapon (in theory) involved dropping a container that would open, sending hundreds of what kind of animal strapped with incendiary bombs all over the village, causing fires and ensuing panic?
1969	Reverend	What was the original title for Mr. Green in the classic board game Clue? At the time it was released, the initial feedback said that no one would think this title would make him a killer.
1970	Albany and Trenton	If you were to bookend the state capitals in terms of alphabetical order, you would have the capitals of what two states?
1971	Buffalo trace	It is common knowledge that Yuengling is the oldest continuously running brewery in the US, but what is the oldest distillery? With this distilleries famous liquor, you could make a Paper Plane, a Brooklyn, and a Boulevardier.
1972	Dachsund	Originally a German dog breed, what breed was bred to be able to hunt animals that borough. Their name translates to “Badger Dog”, and was used by the Germans in WW1 as their national symbol.
1973	Jefferson airplane – Jefferson starship	What band, founded in 1965, disbanded in 1972, breaking off in to two different groups? One of these groups was named Hot Tuna, and the other kept half the name of the original band, and the other half they changed just slightly….
1974	Hawaii, Florida, Nevada	Name two of the three states where their leading economic sector is tourism.
1975	Atlas comics	Before it was called Marvel comics, it held the same name as the one in mythology who would hold up the world. What did Marvel comics used to be named?
1976	Spongebob squarepants	The Marshall Islands were the site of the United States nuclear weapon tests in the 1940’s. What tv show takes place near the islands, and conspiracy theorists also say the show is based off the aftermath of the nuclear bombings?
1977	The who	On December third, 1979, eleven people were killed at the Riverfront Coliseum concert venue in Cincinnati, Ohio. What band was playing the night the mad scramble began?
1978	Kraven the hunter	Of the original Sinister 6 villains of the Spiderman Universe, who is the only one that has not been the main villain of a live action spider man film?
1979	Bart Simpson	Who was the only fictional character featured on the TIME’s list of the most influential people of the 20th century?
1980	Everglades	What is the only national park to contain no mammals, as an invasive species from southeast Asia has eaten them all?
1981	Polo	Other than a racing surface, what is the largest standard playing area in all of sports?
1982	Courtney Cox	Who is the only member of the friends cast to never win an Emmy?
1983		
1984	Carrie underwood, Chris Daughtry	For two points, name the top selling American Idol contestant, both male and female, in terms of total album sales.
1985	Brass Monkey	What cocktail, comprised of rum, vodka, and orange juice, was inspired by a song written by a New York City 80s and 90s based hip hop group?
1986	Kansas	In what state would you find the geographic center of the contiguous United States?
1987	Milwaukee	With the end of the MLB regular season on the horizon, what metropolitan area is the smallest in terms of population that has a Major League baseball team?
1988	Aerosmith	According to data compiled by the National Radio Association, the top two most played classic rock songs on the radio today come from the same band. Name this band.
1989	OJ Simpson car chase	Game 5 of the 1994 NBA finals was famously interrupted on national TV due to the broadcasting network changing the broadcast to showcase what event?
1990	Hitchhikers guide to the galaxy	What book series has an installment that opens with the line “In the beginning, the Universe was created. This had made many people very angry and has been widely regarded as a bad move.”?
1991	Goldilocks	The zone in which planets can revolve around a star and have the ability to support life is called the habitable zone, as it is not too hot, and not too cold. It is also known by the _____________ zone, named after what fairytale character?
1992	98 degrees	What boy band dueted with Stevie Wonder on the song “True to your Heart” in Disney’s Mulan?
1993	Mr. Potato head	What class of 2000 Toy Hall of Fame toy was the first toy to be showcased on a television ad, showing off it’s customizable properties?
1994	Shangri La	What is the name of the fictional place located in the Kunlun Mountains in Tibet, was first described in a 1933 novel, and is known as the most peaceful place on earth, waiting for us humans to get over our petty fights?
1995	Bill hader	The Rolling Stone magazine ranks the top SNL characters of all time, and we find that someone who knows where the best underground nightclub is ranks at the top. Who plays this character?
1996	Disney	The US department of defense if the largest purchaser of explosive material in the US. What fortunate 500 company ranks behind them, at second?
1997	George Takei	What is the name of the actor that, in 1965, broke the barrier for Asians into the acting market, and would forever change the publics opinion on Asian actors?
1998	Pinnochio	Most people know Snow White and the 7 dwarves was Walt Disney’s first feature animated film, what was the second film that was theatrically released?
1999	Matilda	In what book would you find a torture device called the Chokey, a closet filled with nails and glass, and was a place a mad teacher would stuff her students?
2001	n/a	Match the movie to its director
2004	I spy	American photographer and artist Walter Wick has published over 50 books with what 2-word title, that Lil Yachty probably went looking for in his elementary school library?
2005	I spy	American photographer and artist Walter Wick has published over 50 books with what 2-word title, that Lil Yachty probably went looking for in his elementary school library?
2006	Montreal	When looking at all the cities in North America with a major four sports team, NYC and Boston have the most total championships, in terms of all teams in respective metro areas. What city sits in third, with all championships coming from one sport?
2007	Rhinoceros	Possibly the coolest name for a grouping of animals, a “Crash” is the name given to a herd of what herbivore, that I definitely don’t want for Christmas?
2008	I saw the sign – ace of bass	In the movie Pitch Perfect, we see the Barden Bellas not stray too far from tradition early on. What song starts off their first three performances? As John Michael Higgins would say, “this number is like an elephant dart to the publics face”… “I remember singing it with my own acapella group, the menstrual cycles”
2009	I am the walrus by the Beatles	What nonsensical song, released in 1967, has literally no meaning, as the songwriters found out that university students were analyzing their lyrics, and wanted to throw them a curveball of a song with no meaning at all?
2010	Little drummer boy	Computer programmers at Berkley came up with a challenge in which the participants attempt to avoid what song between Thanksgiving and Christmas? Having over 10,000 participants on FB in 2024, the creators state that “you hear it a lot, but not so much that the game is impossible.”
2011	Frosty	Films like Aliens, Predator, and Avatar all have characters that use a phrase meaning stay calm, cool, and collected under pressure. Mostly used before scenes with action, said phrase contains what classic Christmas character?
2012	Philadelphia Eagles	What pro sports team has team members dedicated to raising money for the Children’s Hospital of their city by releasing 3 Christmas albums since 2021? Enlisting the help of Stevie Nicks, Amos Lee, and George Michael, said team was able to take fundraising to new heights for their city.
2013	Halleluiah	What song, originally written in the year 1984, didn’t gain mainstream popularity until a cover was featured in a 2001 film? The song explores the complexities of love and faith and is statistically one of the top five most sung songs on the show The Voice.
2014	Huey Louis and the News	Other than the Jackson Five, the only full band to join the ensemble of We are the World for Africa was what band? The front man of the band came after Daryl Hall and before Cyndi Lauper in the video, and can be heard here.
2027	The ring world	Extra slide to reach station 11 on the ring loop — what closes on itself every 12 turns?
2045	Blue	DRY RUN TEST — what color is the sky?
2046	24	DRY RUN TEST — how many years until 2050?
2047	n/a	DRY RUN TEST — match the pairs
2049	Terrific	And…. We’re back!!! There’s only one word that I’d use to embody that statement. Adam Sandler’s dad, Stanley, appears in most of his films, as the gentlemen that hits a golf ball during the Happy Madison Productions intro. What single word does Stanley say to the camera after shattering the glass with said ball?
2050	Seattle Mariners	One of my favorite recent news stories revolves around a racoon with a rare genetic condition known as Short Spine Syndrome. What MLB team, whose normal mascot is a Moose, embraced Jimothy as a guest mascot, as they went on a winning streak after Jimothy was spotted? If he needs a mental health check, he can ring Frasier…
2051	Roomba or iRobot	“Go get me a pack of Tropical Fruit Bubbalicious.” In recent history, there has only been one major nuclear meltdown, being the Fukushima Power Plant. The Japanese government contracted what US company to head the cleanup effort, as they were able to use their tech to sweep ground zero, measure radiation levels, and cleanup waste?
2052	Montana	The closest thing the US has ever had to the Autobahn was the rural highways of what state, where the daytime speed limit signs read "Drive what is reasonable and prudent"? No number was posted until the state court threw the law out in 1999 for being too vague. Ha, wimps.
2053	Demi	If you were to go to Starbucks and order a shot of espresso so you could handle the day, it would likely be served to you in their smallest size cup, being 3 ounces. What do they call this size, sharing its name with people who attend Camp Half Blood and the character who plays Lt. Cdr. JoAnne Galloway?
2054	Lighthouse	The band who sings the popular hook “She ain’t got no money, her clothes are kind of funny, her hair is kind of wild and free” has what kind of structure in its band name? There used to be a biggg one in Egypt, and the most photographed one in the Midwest is nicknamed Big Red.
2055	2017 - Chance the Rapper	In a category usually dominated by women, the last man to win Best New Artist at the Grammys won in what year?
2056	The Spice Girls	Possibly the best social media schtick that a company has stuck to for an elongated period is KFC, where they only follow 11 people on X, in reference to their 11 herbs and spices. 6 of the people are named Herb, and the others are members of what famous musical group?
2057	Van Dyke	Read the instructions, it explains everything! The facial hair style of a mustache paired with a goatee is traditionally called what? The name combines a mode of transportation and a geographic feature, and is traced back to 17th century English highborns.
2058	Redheads	Does Ben have a type?!? Due to historic tendencies, Andrew Stott, the Professor of Comedy History at the University of Buffalo, says that people with what color hair are seen as funnier than the rest of the population?
2059	Kevin Costner	In 1992, The town of Dyersville, Iowa, acted, preserving a 290-acre land plot to create a tourist destination to boost the local economy. A replica of what celebrity’s star from the Hollywood Walk of Fame can be found at the entrance of the park?
2060	Jumpman	 Original name for a video game character  A song title by people called Josh and Past on opposite day  Trademark name for one of the biggest clothing brands ever
2061	The Most Interesting Man in the World	Actor Johnathon Goldsmith started his acting career starring in many westerns, including the villain in The Shootist. He got reintroduced to the world in 2007 with what title, while talking about a product made at the Moctezuma Brewery?
2062	OJ Simpson	RIP to an absolute legend, Bill Rasmusen, who died today at the age of 93. The patriarch of ESPN, he headed a revolution in terms of sports media. When looking at ESPN’s list of best moments, the top 25 list chronicles moments like the US beating the Soviets in 1980 and Dale Erhnardt dying after a crash at Daytona. Only one name appears twice on the list of Top 25 moments. Name him.
2063	See matches	Match each Pokémon to its type
2064	Don't Stop me Now	
2065	Dust in the Wind	
2066	Chanedlier	
2067	The Brady Bunch Theme	
2068	My House	
2069	Slow Ride	
2070	Avalon	In Arthurian legend, the magical figure known as the Lady of the Lake (or Water) is known as the woman who takes Arthur to the sword Excalibur, raises the knight Lancelot, and eventually carries the dying Arthur to an island after being mortally wounded. A Michigan manufacturer of summer equipment took the name of the island as inspiration. Within an hour drive of Saginaw, what is the name of the company, as well as the island in Arthurian myth?
2071	visual	Movie Posters
2072	audio	Song Snippets
2073	visual	T1 Text
2074	audio	T2 Shiny
2075	word	T3 Shiny
2076	visual	T1 Shiny
2077	audio	T2 Shiny
2078	visual	T1 Shiny
2079	audio	T2 Shiny
2080	Terrific	And…. We're back!!! There's only one word that I'd use to embody that statement. Adam Sandler's dad, Stanley, appears in most of his films, as the gentlemen that hits a golf ball during the Happy Madison Productions intro. What single word does Stanley say to the camera after shattering the glass with said ball?
2081	Seattle Mariners	One of my favorite recent news stories revolves around a racoon with a rare genetic condition known as Short Spine Syndrome. What MLB team, whose normal mascot is a Moose, embraced Jimothy as a guest mascot, as they went on a winning streak after Jimothy was spotted? If he needs a mental health check, he can ring Frasier…
2082	Beer brands	
2083	Roomba or iRobot	“Go get me a pack of Tropical Fruit Bubbalicious.” In recent history, there has only been one major nuclear meltdown, being the Fukushima Power Plant. The Japanese government contracted what US company to head the cleanup effort, as they were able to use their tech to sweep ground zero, measure radiation levels, and cleanup waste?
2084	Montana	The closest thing the US has ever had to the Autobahn was the rural highways of what state, where the daytime speed limit signs read "Drive what is reasonable and prudent"? No number was posted until the state court threw the law out in 1999 for being too vague. Ha, wimps.
2085		
2086	Demi	If you were to go to Starbucks and order a shot of espresso so you could handle the day, it would likely be served to you in their smallest size cup, being 3 ounces. What do they call this size, sharing its name with people who attend Camp Half Blood and the character who plays Lt. Cdr. JoAnne Galloway?
2087	Lighthouse	The band who sings the popular hook “She ain't got no money, her clothes are kind of funny, her hair is kind of wild and free” has what kind of structure in its band name? There used to be a biggg one in Egypt, and the most photographed one in the Midwest is nicknamed Big Red.
2088	2017 - Chance the Rapper	In a category usually dominated by women, the last man to win Best New Artist at the Grammys won in what year?
2089	The Spice Girls	Possibly the best social media schtick that a company has stuck to for an elongated period is KFC, where they only follow 11 people on X, in reference to their 11 herbs and spices. 6 of the people are named Herb, and the others are members of what famous musical group?
2090	Van Dyke	Read the instructions, it explains everything! The facial hair style of a mustache paired with a goatee is traditionally called what? The name combines a mode of transportation and a geographic feature, and is traced back to 17th century English highborns.
2091		
2092		
2093		
2094		
2095		
2096		
2097		
2098	Don't Stop me Now	
2099	Dust in the Wind	
2100	Chanedlier	
2101	The Brady Bunch Theme	
2102	Redheads	Does Ben have a type?!? Due to historic tendencies, Andrew Stott, the Professor of Comedy History at the University of Buffalo, says that people with what color hair are seen as funnier than the rest of the population?
2103	Kevin Costner	In 1992, The town of Dyersville, Iowa, acted, preserving a 290-acre land plot to create a tourist destination to boost the local economy. A replica of what celebrity's star from the Hollywood Walk of Fame can be found at the entrance of the park?
2104	Jumpman	Original name for a video game character, a song title by people called Josh and Past on opposite day, trademark name for one of the biggest clothing brands ever
2105	The Most Interesting Man in the World	Actor Johnathon Goldsmith started his acting career starring in many westerns, including the villain in The Shootist. He got reintroduced to the world in 2007 with what title, while talking about a product made at the Moctezuma Brewery?
2106	OJ Simpson	RIP to an absolute legend, Bill Rasmusen, who died today at the age of 93. The patriarch of ESPN, he headed a revolution in terms of sports media. When looking at ESPN's list of best moments, the top 25 list chronicles moments like the US beating the Soviets in 1980 and Dale Erhnardt dying after a crash at Daytona. Only one name appears twice on the list of Top 25 moments. Name him.
2107	My House	
2108	Slow Ride	
2109		
2110	Avalon	In Arthurian legend, the magical figure known as the Lady of the Lake (or Water) is known as the woman who takes Arthur to the sword Excalibur, raises the knight Lancelot, and eventually carries the dying Arthur to an island after being mortally wounded. A Michigan manufacturer of summer equipment took the name of the island as inspiration. Within an hour drive of Saginaw, what is the name of the company, as well as the island in Arthurian myth?
2116	Wolverines	You picked the wrong house, bub… In the film Napoleon Dynamite, when Napoleon returns to school, a classmate asks him what he did all summer. He mentions he was in Alaska with his uncle hunting what kind of animal, the largest member of the weasel family?
2117	The Stranger	Ok so, I’m never looking at Billy Joel album covers ever again… In the TV series Game of Thrones, we learn that most of the citizens of Westeros worship The Seven, seven embodiments of the same God. With names like the Mother, the Father, and the Maiden, what is the name of the God of Death?
2118	All Golf Terms	
2119	Hells Angels	Classified as an organized crime syndicate, what organization, founded in 1948 in California, is known to have their supporters and members wear pieces with the words “Support 81” on them? A cipher, the number encodes their name, so they don’t stand out to the public. I wonder if they know Charlie?
2120	Jazz Musicians	It’s a bee law; you’re not supposed to talk to a human! The CIA ran covert operations to send what kind of entertainers to Eastern Europe to culturally combat the Soviet Union? Denounced by the Soviets as “capitalist decadence”, they were used to project American freedom to countries shadowed by the Iron Curtain.
2121		Put these Disney animated classics in the order they hit theaters.
2122		Put these Cedar Point coasters in order from shortest to tallest.
2123		Put these viral moments in the order they happened.
2124	Ostrich	Many theorists say that Johnny Cash relapsed on his past pain killer addictions after he was attacked by his pet Waldo in 1981, causing 5 broken ribs. At over 9 feet tall, and known for having the largest eyes of any land animal, what kind of animal was Waldo?
2125	David Beckham	If one were to categorize The Rock as strictly an actor, the only athlete to ever win People Magazines Sexiest Man Alive is what athlete? Winning in 2015, he had beat out Idris Elba and Galaxy member Chris Pratt, and would dethrone the prior year’s winner, Chris Hemsworth.
2126	Brazil	Curupira: known as a forest guardian, a small human like boy with bright red hair. The twist? Backwards feet, so he can lead intruders away from the indigenous people, and towards places like waterfalls, sudden drop offs, and cliffs.
2127	Basoon	In my new favorite TV comedy show, Silicon Valley, there’s a scene where Dinesh, played by Kumail Nanjiani, says Justin Bieber is the Hitler of music. Then, Jarred, played by Zach Woods, says that Hitler actually played what woodwind instrument, known for its folded wooden shape and bass noises?
2128	Moxie	One could ask either Amelia Earhardt or Amy Adams that the oldest continuously sold carbonated soft drink in the US is called what? Known for its overly bitter taste and its iconic mascot pointing at the drinker, the name is also an informal noun that means courage, determination, and spunk.
2129		
2130		
2131		
2132		
2133	Wisdom	In the tabletop RPG game Dungeons and Dragons, there are many different skills that a character can have, which are scored on a scale of 1 – 17. Intelligence measures one’s books smart, but what word classifies one’s street smarts?
2134	Turd Ferguson	On multiple billboards along US10, we can see a laughing poop character that the business calls what? Said character is named after a late-night show character, that always chews gum and wears a bolo tie… Ah, hell let's go nuts!
2135	Cosmo	- Viridian Nickelodeon character - Cocktail that falls on the end of the color spectrum - Moomers ice cream flavor with chocolate fudge and marshmallows
2136	Crete	Greek hero Theseus is famous for slaying the monster that roamed the labyrinth, the Minotaur. King Minos had the labyrinth built so he could send 14 children every 9 years to be eaten by the beast. Minos was the king of what island, the largest in Greece?
2137	Lima and Quebec	Within the NATO phonetic alphabet, there are two major cities. One above the equator, and one below. One’s a capital, the other has a nickname meaning “the beautiful”. Both colonial centers, one is 777 miles away northeast, the other is just under 3500 miles south.
2138	Patty Loveless	The first major show Kenny Chesney ever played happened in 1993, where he opened up for what opposite of “hated more” country singer? Known for album “Mountain Soul”, she was inducted into the CMHOF in 2023, alongside Tanya Tucker.
2622	Sex and the City	In the TV show Parks and Recreation, we meet the parks dept from the rival town Eagleton after a merger. Craig introduces himself like this… a reference to what show?
2623	Sonic the Hedgehog	Get a load of this! According to diehard Beatles fans, the band inspired the arch enemy of what video game character, as his name is pulled from lyrics in the song, I Am the Walrus? Created in 1991, BAFTA’s list of most iconic video game characters of all time ranks the character at number 3.
2624	The Joker - Steve Miller Band	
2625	Scarecrow	Nagoro, a remote village on Shikoku Island in Japan, has over 400 life sized dolls scattered around the village to memorialize the dying community. It’s garnered what nickname, that it shares with a 1939 movies second billed character, and a villain of the caped crusader?
2626	Plunder	Arg!!! One of the largest latter half operations of WW2 was the “Ghost Army” that was used to distract the German forces so the allies could cross the Rhine. Over 30,000 balloons, blow up tanks, and movie speakers were staged by top Hollywood stage designers and techs. What was the name of the operation, meaning take goods by force, violence, or fraud?
2627	Don Cheadle	
2628	Stellen Skarsgard	
2629	Rosamund Pike	
2630	Radiohead	If you just graduated from high school, and met someone who’d eventually get away, you’d have a make out session in the back of your car while listening to what band? With albums like The Bends and OK Computer, they’re known as leaders of the Alternative music age, they are loved most by one Scott Tenormen…
2631	Obsidian	In the video game series Mortal Kombat, we meet Kotal Kahn, whose design is heavily inspired by the Aztec God of the Sun and War. He wields a Macuahuitl, a wooden saw sword with what material on the edges, known as the sharpest naturally occurring thing on the planet? No diamond pickaxe needed…
2632	18	In the film Space Jam, how many different Loony Toons make up the Toon Squad?
2633	Dallas	In the country song Mysteries of the World by the defunct band Walker McGuire, they discuss unsolved mysteries from the past, including asking “Where did DB Cooper go?”. They also ask the question, “Was there a shooter on the grassy knoll”, referencing an event that occurred in what US city?
2634	Checkers	When looking at the Strong Toy Hall of Fames lineup, there are three toys who share their names with fast food chains found throughout the US. Alongside Dominos and Jack in the Box, what third toy, with confusingly no locations in Michigan, would you see share its name with a restaurant chain?
2635	Unicorn	The acting world lost legend Tim Curry this past week at the age of 80. In one of his more underrated roles, he plays Darkness in Ridley Scotts Legend, where the one rule of the forest is to not touch what magical beast?
2636	Ironhide	To many boys of multiple generations, a true icon was also lost this past week, when Peter Cullen, the voice behind Optimus Prime, was lost. Primes chief lieutenants are Jazz for Spec Ops, Prowl for Strategy, and who as his weapons specialist? “You feelin lucky, punk”?
2637	C3PO	George Lucas’s wife, Marcia, divorced him after the release of Return of the Jedi. The main editor for the original trilogy, she won the Academy Award for editing A New Hope, and is credited with coming up with the emotional pacing of the first three films. Which character says the first ever line we hear in a star wars film?
2638	Steel Magnolias	Dolly Partons viral quote is flying around Tik Tok right now, instructing how to make her Cuppa Cuppa Cake recipe, which requires…. She says this line in what film, with a flower in the title?
2639	Cop	Victor Willis… someone we all know of, but needs more name recognition. The co-founder of the Village People, he was the one at the forefront of the YMCA music video, dressed in what costume?
2640	Gumdrop Button	And finally, Welsh singer Bonnie Tyler. Mostly known for her song Total Eclipse of the Heart, her song Holding Out For a Hero is covered in Shrek 2 by the Fairy Godmother. The giant Gingerbread Monster, named mongo, gets shot by a fireball, leading to him losing what?
2641		
2642		
2643	Bull	Releasing his last film in later Sept, titled “Best and Last”, the head of Jackass Johnny Knoxville is hanging it up. He told the podcast No Such Thing as a Fish that his body can no longer do pranks with what animal, the animal used most in Jackass pranks, due to the last incident giving him severe brain bleeds?
2644	Orchard Lake	Harvest time!!! Currently the most expensive house for sale in the State of Michigan sits on what lake? With the average house price sitting at $750,000, and in the school district whose sports teams rank #1 in the state, the house is currently for sale for $25 million.
2645	vector	- File type used by artists - Animated movie villain - High school math term
2646	Beware of Dog	Many homes around the epicenter of Pompeii, including the House of the Poet, had the words Cave Canem on the outside of their doors. What three-word phrase does this translate to, which can be found on homes to this day, and would’ve been useful in the movie The Sandlot?
2647	Paramount	In the TV show Game of Thrones, the term given to lords that rule over certain areas of land is what? Sharing with the name of a major US multimedia company, it’s the second oldest film studio in America, the word itself means “more important than anything else, or supreme”.
2648	Herman	“Uh, what is a yute?”… Geeky Magazine rated the looks and styles of each of the original 28 Guess Who? pickable characters, and found the one with the least style is also the one that is picked the least amount by players of the game. What is the name of this man, sharing it with a 19th century fictional dad, and part of the name of a British Invasion band?
3081	Sex and the City	In the TV show Parks and Recreation, we meet the parks dept from the rival town Eagleton after a merger. Craig introduces himself like this… a reference to what show?
3082	Sonic the Hedgehog	Get a load of this! According to diehard Beatles fans, the band inspired the arch enemy of what video game character, as his name is pulled from lyrics in the song, I Am the Walrus? Created in 1991, BAFTA’s list of most iconic video game characters of all time ranks the character at number 3.
3083	The Joker - Steve Miller Band	
3084	Scarecrow	Nagoro, a remote village on Shikoku Island in Japan, has over 400 life sized dolls scattered around the village to memorialize the dying community. It’s garnered what nickname, that it shares with a 1939 movies second billed character, and a villain of the caped crusader?
3085	Plunder	Arg!!! One of the largest latter half operations of WW2 was the “Ghost Army” that was used to distract the German forces so the allies could cross the Rhine. Over 30,000 balloons, blow up tanks, and movie speakers were staged by top Hollywood stage designers and techs. What was the name of the operation, meaning take goods by force, violence, or fraud?
3086	Don Cheadle	
3087	Stellen Skarsgard	
3088	Rosamund Pike	
3089	Radiohead	If you just graduated from high school, and met someone who’d eventually get away, you’d have a make out session in the back of your car while listening to what band? With albums like The Bends and OK Computer, they’re known as leaders of the Alternative music age, they are loved most by one Scott Tenormen…
3090	Obsidian	In the video game series Mortal Kombat, we meet Kotal Kahn, whose design is heavily inspired by the Aztec God of the Sun and War. He wields a Macuahuitl, a wooden saw sword with what material on the edges, known as the sharpest naturally occurring thing on the planet? No diamond pickaxe needed…
3091	18	In the film Space Jam, how many different Loony Toons make up the Toon Squad?
3092	Dallas	If one were to reference the question “Was there a shooter on the grassy knoll”, they are referencing an event that occurred in what US city?
3093	Checkers	When looking at the Strong Toy Hall of Fames lineup, there are three toys who share their names with fast food chains found throughout the US. Alongside Dominos and Jack in the Box, what third toy, with confusingly no locations in Michigan, would you see share its name with a restaurant chain?
3094	Unicorn	The acting world lost legend Tim Curry this past week at the age of 80. In one of his more underrated roles, he plays Darkness in Ridley Scotts Legend, where the one rule of the forest is to not touch what magical beast?
3095	Ironhide	To many boys of multiple generations, a true icon was also lost this past week, when Peter Cullen, the voice behind Optimus Prime, was lost. Primes chief lieutenants are Jazz for Spec Ops, Prowl for Strategy, and who as his weapons specialist? “You feelin lucky, punk”?
3096	C3PO	George Lucas’s wife, Marcia, divorced him after the release of Return of the Jedi. The main editor for the original trilogy, she won the Academy Award for editing A New Hope, and is credited with coming up with the emotional pacing of the first three films. Which character says the first ever line we hear in a star wars film?
3097	Steel Magnolias	Dolly Partons viral quote is flying around Tik Tok right now, instructing how to make her Cuppa Cuppa Cake recipe, which requires…. She says this line in what film, with a flower in the title?
3098	Cop	Victor Willis… someone we all know of, but needs more name recognition. The co-founder of the Village People, he was the one at the forefront of the YMCA music video, dressed in what costume?
3099	Gumdrop Button	And finally, Welsh singer Bonnie Tyler. Mostly known for her song Total Eclipse of the Heart, her song Holding Out For a Hero is covered in Shrek 2 by the Fairy Godmother. The giant Gingerbread Monster, named mongo, gets shot by a fireball, leading to him losing what?
3100		
3101		
3102	Bull	Releasing his last film in later Sept, titled “Best and Last”, the head of Jackass Johnny Knoxville is hanging it up. He told the podcast No Such Thing as a Fish that his body can no longer do pranks with what animal, the animal used most in Jackass pranks, due to the last incident giving him severe brain bleeds?
3103	Orchard Lake	Harvest time!!! Currently the most expensive house for sale in the State of Michigan sits on what lake? With the average house price sitting at $750,000, and in the school district whose sports teams rank #1 in the state, the house is currently for sale for $25 million.
3104	vector	- File type used by artists - Animated movie villain - High school math term
3105	Beware of Dog	Many homes around the epicenter of Pompeii, including the House of the Poet, had the words Cave Canem on the outside of their doors. What three-word phrase does this translate to, which can be found on homes to this day, and would’ve been useful in the movie The Sandlot?
3106	Paramount	In the TV show Game of Thrones, the term given to lords that rule over certain areas of land is what? Sharing with the name of a major US multimedia company, it’s the second oldest film studio in America, the word itself means “more important than anything else, or supreme”.
3107	Herman	“Uh, what is a yute?”… Geeky Magazine rated the looks and styles of each of the original 28 Guess Who? pickable characters, and found the one with the least style is also the one that is picked the least amount by players of the game. What is the name of this man, sharing it with a 19th century fictional dad, and part of the name of a British Invasion band?
00c5c0ae-e125-4d6d-8fbb-a4d24e1ebcfb	Checker Motors Corporation	Every classic yellow-and-black checkered New York City taxi ever built came out of a factory in Kalamazoo, Michigan — Checker Motors moved there from Chicago in 1923 and built the cars until production ended in 1982.
00e17488-7bc5-42a9-befb-a81f35e29cae	Nintendo	Nintendo is far older than its games suggest — founded in Kyoto in 1889 by Fusajiro Yamauchi to make hand-painted 'hanafuda' playing cards. It sold cards (and at various points ran love hotels, a taxi company and instant rice) for decades before its first video game, and it still sells hanafuda today.
01c4ab61-f0a8-4f36-9e81-adb2af47cbda	BERSERK	From Old Norse *berserkr* — "bear-shirt" (*ber-* + *serkr*), referring to elite Viking warriors who wore bear pelts into battle in a trance-like frenzy.
034329dc-2a5d-4a7f-be72-a8924f661cf9	Woody Guthrie	The lyrics of Dropkick Murphys' "I'm Shipping Up to Boston" — the platinum single that opens The Departed — are a five-line unpublished Woody Guthrie fragment about a sailor hunting for his lost wooden leg. Guthrie's daughter Nora invited singer Ken Casey into the Guthrie archives in New York (white gloves required), where he pulled the scrap from thousands of never-set-to-music pages; the band already had the riff and no words.
03bd79c5-b7dc-4233-abe2-f9bc2c51ed06	ASSASSIN'S CREED	"Assassin" comes from the Nizari Ismaili sect founded by Hasan-i Sabbah in 1090, running political killers from the mountain fortress of Alamut in Persia during the Crusades. The popular "hashish-eater" origin story was invented in 1809 by a French orientalist, unsupported by contemporary Muslim sources.
0426cfc3-776e-4952-86a4-ed95e4a9edef	Matt Damon	For Saving Private Ryan, Spielberg put the whole squad — Hanks, Sizemore, Vin Diesel, Barry Pepper and co. — through Capt. Dale Dye's brutal six-day boot camp (5-mile runs, three hours' sleep, cold rain), and deliberately exempted ONE actor: Damon stayed home so the cast's resentment of him — and of Private Ryan — would be real on camera.
0432f539-74af-49df-b6b0-7014772b2df3	Harry Chiti	On April 25, 1962, the Cleveland Indians traded catcher Harry Chiti to the fledgling New York Mets for a player to be named later — then on June 15 the Mets sent that 'player to be named later' back to Cleveland: Harry Chiti himself. He remains the first of only four players in MLB history ever traded for himself.
0472d669-cb15-4cdc-893a-a44342e2d776	Soo Locks	Sault Ste. Marie's Soo Locks — the passage that lets Great Lakes freighters move between Lake Superior and the lower lakes — carried so much of the country's iron ore during WWII that the Army made it the most heavily defended inland site in the U.S.: roughly 7,300 troops, 48 anti-aircraft guns, 51 barrage balloons on steel cables to snag dive bombers, and underwater steel netting to stop torpedoes, all guarding a stretch of the St. Marys River most Americans have never heard of.
048a7282-8f28-47f6-882a-216526623361	The Snurfer (Sherman Poppen, Muskegon)	The modern snowboard traces to Christmas Day 1965 in Muskegon, Michigan, when Sherman Poppen bolted two children's skis together so his daughters could 'surf' the backyard snow dunes. His wife Nancy named it the 'Snurfer' (snow + surfer), and Brunswick Corporation — the Muskegon bowling-equipment company — mass-produced it using leftover bowling-lane wood laminate.
04e92cb6-2135-48e7-9847-648a5e0ba2de	Heineken	After seeing bottles littering Curaçao's beaches in 1960, Alfred Heineken commissioned architect John Habraken to design "a brick that holds beer" — the WOBO (World Bottle), a square-sided interlocking beer bottle meant to double as a building brick for cheap housing. About 100,000 were made at Leerdam in 1963–64 before the company killed it (liability worries, and fear of associating the brand with poverty). Only two WOBO structures were ever built, both on/at Heineken's own property, and surviving bottles now sit in the Victoria and Albert Museum.
05cd465d-e2d9-4e27-ae93-589f416cb55c	quiz	The famous origin story of the word "quiz" — that Dublin theater manager Richard Daly won a 1791 bet that he could inject a nonsense word into the language within ~48 hours by hiring urchins to chalk QUIZ on every wall in Dublin — is itself a fabrication. The word is attested by 1780 (meaning "an odd person"), a decade before the supposed bet, and the earliest telling of the Daly story only appears in 1835. The origin story of "quiz" is a hoax; the word's real origin is unknown.
066f9d7a-46f6-4ea0-9665-4d8c6918f1a3	Phil LaMarr	The guy who gets accidentally shot in the face by John Travolta in Pulp Fiction ("Marvin") is also the voice of Samurai Jack and Green Lantern/John Stewart in Justice League.
06965b5b-53c1-49c1-ba7f-41dcc3c6e790	SWEETHEARTS (conversation hearts)	There were no Sweethearts for Valentine's Day 2019 — NECCO went bankrupt in 2018 after an FDA citation for rodent infestation, and the brand sat dark for a year until Spangler Candy bought it.
06dafbc8-0145-40fb-86a8-9c40e4c19db8	Goodyear	Charles Goodyear discovered vulcanized rubber by accident in 1839, dropping a rubber-and-sulfur mixture on a hot stove — he died broke in 1860. The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company wasn't founded by him: Frank Seiberling started it in 1898, 38 years after Goodyear's death, naming it in his honor.
07021a4e-bc03-44a6-b90e-e77570fb67fb	DEL SHANNON	Born in Coopersville, Michigan, hit #1 with "Runaway" (1961) — its warbling solo isn't a guitar or organ, it's the "Musitron," a homemade electronic keyboard built by bandmate Max Crook, modeled on the Clavioline, predating most commercial synthesizers.
08fe09da-75b5-4bec-8043-3bb02a376e69	Boxing ring	A boxing "ring" has been square since 1838, when the London Prize Ring Rules first codified a roped-off square fighting area — but the name never changed, because it descended from the literal circle of ground (and circle of spectators) that bare-knuckle fights used before ropes and posts existed.
0903e302-d6e6-4ea3-81de-139cd1e88841	bra	In 2009 Dr. Elena Bodnar won a real Ig Nobel Prize in Public Health for inventing a bra that converts, in under five seconds, into two protective gas masks. She developed it after treating Chernobyl fallout victims and finding inhaled particles caused as much harm as the radiation itself.
0904b370-8865-4998-b470-6a9927dfd410	The Lone Ranger	He was born in Michigan — created by George Trendle and Fran Striker at Detroit radio station WXYZ, debuting January 30, 1933. The same station and creators launched the Green Hornet in 1936, and canonically the Green Hornet (Britt Reid) is the Lone Ranger's great-nephew — established on-air in a 1947 episode.
090b820d-883f-43b8-a890-6c2a54ee20a1	Grape-Nuts	Grape-Nuts — invented 1897 in Battle Creek, Michigan by C.W. Post, a former patient of his rival Dr. Kellogg's sanitarium — became the unofficial cereal of expeditions: it sponsored Admiral Byrd's 1933 Antarctic expedition (route maps printed on the boxes), went into the pre-1944 US jungle ration in WW2, and was packed along on Hillary and Norgay's 1953 first ascent of Everest, which Post advertised for decades.
096e243d-fea4-4e94-a4dd-5aa1f8dd5fbd	FIGHT CLUB	Before Tyler Durden is formally introduced, single subliminal frames of him flash almost imperceptibly in earlier scenes — a self-referential joke, since Tyler's own job in the film is a projectionist who splices porn frames into family movies.
09e6f387-2a1c-40cb-a3a0-6712772fb4d5	Detroit Tigers	On May 18, 1912, the Tigers staged baseball's first player strike — protesting Ty Cobb's suspension for climbing into the stands to beat a disabled heckler. Facing a $5,000 forfeit fine, Detroit fielded a team of Philadelphia amateurs recruited on the spot. Pitcher Allan Travers — a St. Joseph's College student who had never played organized ball — threw a complete game, surrendering 24 runs on 26 hits, both still AL records, in a 24–2 loss to the A's. Travers was ordained in 1926: the only Catholic priest ever to play Major League Baseball.
0a08e0c5-aee9-4da8-ae85-770b0fee4e06	Stone Temple Pilots	Before landing on "Stone Temple Pilots," the band was called "Mighty Joe Young" until they learned a real blues musician already had that name. Scrambling for a replacement, they built the band name backward from childhood nostalgia for STP Motor Oil stickers.
0a377064-b57b-4c5c-82e5-0dffc13d5f83	JEEP	The Jeep's name has two competing origin stories still argued today: military slang for "GP" (General Purpose), or "Eugene the Jeep" — a magical do-anything Popeye comic-strip creature debuting 1936.
0b593917-6f36-4370-aefd-354c7c7645bd	John Adams (and Thomas Jefferson)	John Adams and Thomas Jefferson — the Declaration's principal author and its fiercest floor advocate, later bitter rivals turned lifelong pen pals — died within about five hours of each other on July 4, 1826, the document's 50th anniversary. Adams' last words were 'Thomas Jefferson survives,' not knowing Jefferson had already died at Monticello that afternoon. The 200th anniversary of that coincidence fell on July 4, 2026.
0cc4eef1-5153-4aa1-9e0a-d3ae93806ef6	THE KILLERS	Brandon Flowers took the name off a bass drum in New Order's 2001 "Crystal" music video — a fictional mimed band's kit reads "The Killers."
0cf51fc5-ec5c-4e6e-82db-040b10807084	EMU	November 1932, the Australian military deployed WWI veterans with two Lewis machine guns against ~20,000 emus overrunning Western Australian wheat farms. After 45 days, soldiers had killed only ~2,500 birds and the government called off the "Emu War" — the emus effectively won.
101c8c12-5f53-4877-8b3e-02ec25b01590	Mulholland Drive	David Lynch's film — the one the BBC's critics poll named the best film of the 21st century — started life as a Twin Peaks spin-off about Audrey Horne moving to Hollywood (confirmed by co-creator Mark Frost and Sherilyn Fenn), then became a 90-minute ABC TV pilot that the network killed; French money from StudioCanal let Lynch reshoot an ending, and the salvaged pilot won him Best Director at Cannes 2001.
10b83bac-5fd4-42db-a167-af3a9d658453	Milton Bradley	Milton Bradley was a Springfield lithographer whose best-selling print was a portrait of clean-shaven Abraham Lincoln — until Lincoln grew his beard after the 1860 election run-up, customers demanded refunds, and Bradley burned his worthless inventory. Nearly ruined, he pivoted that same winter to printing a board game, The Checkered Game of Life (1860) — complete with squares for Prison, Ruin, and Suicide — and sold 45,000+ copies by 1861, founding the game empire that later gave us Twister and Operation.
115ff54c-1ed9-4bbf-9f93-272643f61c71	MONGOOSE	Carries a genetic mutation in its acetylcholine receptors that blocks snake neurotoxins — one of only a handful of mammal lineages naturally immune to cobra venom.
11db0356-457f-4132-b145-8d2b3902e5f6	TETRIS	Invented 1984 by Soviet programmer Alexey Pajitnov — but since he worked for the state, rights belonged to Soviet agency Elorg. A 1989 Moscow bidding war ended with Nintendo winning handheld rights and bundling it with every Game Boy sold in North America. Pajitnov saw no royalties until rights reverted to him in 1996.
12e98f17-6a61-4d29-bc8a-1901a78493f1	NAKED MOLE-RAT	Almost entirely immune to cancer, lives up to 37 years — longest lifespan of any rodent, no rise in mortality with age.
1329517b-e2e3-4948-9802-073ac40efe5e	Woody Strode	Toy Story's Sheriff Woody was named as a tribute to this man, who helped integrate the NFL in 1946, a year before Jackie Robinson broke baseball's color line, and later starred in Westerns like The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance.
1357c83d-85d0-4d27-a623-46af3a3eb4e8	Al Pacino	Al Pacino won a Razzie for playing a fictionalized version of himself in Adam Sandler's Jack and Jill, rapping about a fake Dunkin' Donuts drink called "Dunkaccino." He revealed in his 2024 memoir he took the role because he'd just lost his life savings to a Ponzi scheme.
136b0cfd-f243-42ee-aa09-050f12eceda9	FENWAY PARK	The lone red seat in Fenway's green bleachers (Sec. 42, Row 37, Seat 21) marks where Ted Williams' 502-foot homer landed June 9, 1946 — still the park's longest — striking napping fan Joseph Boucher, punching a hole through his straw hat.
13a4ad73-e879-4823-8129-849007dd9921	Jim Abbott	On September 4, 1993, Yankees lefty Jim Abbott — born without a right hand — threw a no-hitter against a loaded Cleveland lineup featuring Albert Belle, Manny Ramirez, Jim Thome and Kenny Lofton. He fielded by switching his glove onto his right arm after each pitch. It remains the only no-hitter thrown by a pitcher born with one hand.
141eaf45-c8e0-4505-a90e-e3efea44a28c	Cleveland	In 1986, Cleveland's United Way tried to set a Guinness world record by releasing 1.5 million balloons over downtown ("Balloonfest '86") — it worked (still the largest mass balloon release ever recorded), but the balloons collided with a rainstorm, dropped while still inflated, shut down a runway at Burke Lakefront Airport, and blanketed Lake Erie during a Coast Guard search for two missing fishermen who were later found drowned. Widely reported at the time as connected; a Coast Guard search-and-rescue program manager stated in a 2024 interview the balloons "did not have anything to do with" the deaths — treat the causation as disputed, not settled.
1422ddf3-16c4-480d-adbd-03a987946dff	Disco Demolition Night	The Detroit Tigers own the last forfeit win in American League history — awarded 9–0 on July 12, 1979, when Chicago DJ Steve Dahl's "Disco Demolition Night" (98-cent admission if you brought a disco record to be blown up, a nod to WLUP 97.9) drew ~50,000 to Comiskey Park; the between-games explosion and ~7,000 field-storming rioters wrecked the field, and game two of the doubleheader was never played.
147141e5-d87b-4680-a00c-09b099a4da97	TWENTY ONE PILOTS	Tyler Joseph named the band after Arthur Miller's 1947 play *All My Sons*, where a WWII defense manufacturer ships cracked engine parts, getting 21 pilots killed.
1480e595-1da6-4724-98b6-55bb38e3a88c	Linus Pauling	Chemist Linus Pauling is the only person ever to win two Nobel Prizes on his own, unshared — Chemistry in 1954, for work on the chemical bond, then Peace in 1962, for anti-nuclear-testing activism.
14c299c2-dc8a-4f03-a43b-48a597258ac1	Winnie the Pooh	When Jeremy Irons' voice gave out recording Scar's "Be Prepared" for The Lion King (1994), Disney had the voice of Winnie the Pooh finish the villain song — Jim Cummings (Pooh AND Tigger since the late '80s, credited in the film as Ed the hyena) sang the final third of the track doing a seamless Irons impression; he calls the gig "stunt singing." The switch lands around "the sensational news."
150e7888-1321-4221-9180-765e0b913b50	AXOLOTL	Fully regrows limbs, jaw, heart tissue, spinal cord, even brain tissue — repeatedly, no scarring. Never metamorphoses; survives naturally only in Xochimilco canals under Mexico City, critically endangered.
15263c67-4526-4ae8-b674-205fe6d8f5ea	MICHIGAN STATE SPARTANS	Before every home game, players/coaches walk from Kellogg Center to Spartan Stadium and toss pennies at the Spartan statue's base for luck. The 1945 original was cast in terra-cotta (WWII bronze rationing); a 2005 bronze replica stands outside now.
152fc406-b6d9-4b59-8076-1ad258ff996b	Slogan	"Slogan" comes from Scottish Gaelic "sluagh-ghairm" — literally "army cry," a Highland clan's rallying shout — entering English by the 1670s, not taking its modern advertising sense until the 1700s.
15798b3c-f7e2-40d8-97ce-1342a3ddf293	Tug of War	Tug of war was an official medal event at the Summer Olympics from 1900 through 1920, then dropped when the IOC trimmed the program. Its biggest scandal came in 1908 in London: the Liverpool police team competed in their standard-issue service boots, the U.S. team protested the footwear as illegal, the protest was denied, and the Americans withdrew in disgust rather than face a rematch.
15b3fcde-7b7a-4688-811a-a9b17a2b6296	Rodriguez (Sixto Rodriguez)	Detroit folk-rock musician Rodriguez released two albums in the early 1970s that flopped completely in the US — he spent decades doing manual labor and construction in Detroit, unaware that, without his knowledge, his records had become massively popular in apartheid-era South Africa, where he's said to have outsold Elvis Presley and was rumored (falsely) to have died by suicide onstage.
1644cf15-c906-4d77-aaac-9d82a317f484	Fanta	Fanta was invented in Nazi Germany in 1940 as a Coca-Cola workaround. When a U.S. trade embargo cut off Coca-Cola syrup to its German subsidiary, plant head Max Keith told his team to use their 'Fantasie' (imagination) to make something from whatever scraps were on hand — apple pomace, whey, beet sugar — and a salesman shouted back 'Fanta!' It sold three million cases in Germany in 1943 alone.
17494f2c-828a-41b3-b185-60bd81dab053	Africa	Africa is slowly splitting in two along the East African Rift — the Somali and Nubian tectonic plates are pulling apart at about 8-9mm/year — and geologists expect the rift to eventually flood and become Earth's sixth ocean, tens of millions of years from now.
18146c4e-8509-4fe5-81ff-01b6ff023b63	NIAGARA FALLS	In 1896, hosted the world's first large-scale long-distance AC transmission — a Tesla/Westinghouse system sending power 20 miles to Buffalo, kickstarting the modern power grid. Its "Honeymoon Capital of the World" title dates to 1803, when Napoleon's brother Jerome Bonaparte honeymooned there.
18427f0c-86b6-4208-92b7-5722e8fbf0a6	DETROIT RED WINGS	April 15, 1952, brothers Pete and Jerry Cusimano (Detroit fish market owners) hurled an octopus onto the Olympia Stadium ice — 8 tentacles symbolizing the 8 playoff wins then needed for the Cup. The Wings won that night, and the tradition stuck.
184db164-bc8d-4344-956b-27127081d8f2	Woodrow Wilson	Woodrow Wilson is the only U.S. president to hold an earned doctorate — a Ph.D. in history and political science from Johns Hopkins, 1885. He was president of Princeton University before he was President of the United States.
188ca300-a0c8-4ffc-b682-067f1ef1024b	Super Bowl I	It's the only Super Bowl broadcast on two networks at once (CBS and NBC) — yet no complete recording survives, because both networks wiped their tapes to reuse them, reportedly recording soap operas over the game. A partial CBS tape surfaced in a Wilkes-Barre, PA attic in 2011; the NFL finally re-aired the game in 2016 by stitching together all 145 plays from NFL Films footage over the radio call.
1a652cfe-a6df-4f87-94ae-5e7d0096dc7b	Toronto Raptors	Toronto's 1995 NBA expansion team is named for the velociraptors of Jurassic Park (1993). The original uniform was a busy purple design with a red dinosaur — fans immediately nicknamed it the "Barney jersey" after the friendly purple TV dinosaur, even though the Raptors' dino was red, not purple.
1aadc426-4399-4fcb-8761-209e2c386c45	Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs	Walt and Roy Disney mortgaged their houses and took out multiple Bank of America loans to finish the $1.49M film, which Hollywood insiders derisively nicknamed "Disney's Folly" during production, certain a 90-minute cartoon would flop.
1b5b32dd-0cec-4b94-9404-5efa65148c5d	Pisa	The Leaning Tower of Pisa's tilt comes from soft, unstable subsoil under one side of its foundation; a 1990s stabilization project corrected the lean from over 5.5 degrees to about 4 degrees, rather than fully straightening it.
1bffb3aa-ee0d-4c93-ae03-d339da8c5f2c	CEREAL	"Cereal" comes from Ceres, the Roman goddess of agriculture and harvest — entered English in 1832 for "grain-yielding grass." Not applied to breakfast food until 1899, nearly 70 years later.
1c7b51d1-4029-4d72-b3b0-7c4d09b8ec26	BOMBARDIER BEETLE	When threatened, mixes stored chemicals in an internal chamber, triggering a near-100°C, ~70-pulse-per-second chemical explosion sprayed with pinpoint aim at attackers.
1c876d4c-6203-48d3-bf35-9629a0e96825	Fernando Tatis	On April 23, 1999, Fernando Tatis hit two grand slams in the SAME inning — both off the same pitcher, the Dodgers' Chan Ho Park — driving in a record eight runs in one inning. Nobody had ever done it, and Park set his own record for allowing both.
1c8a5dae-cbe4-4f22-b84c-afe828493488	Alan Shepard	When Apollo 14's Alan Shepard hit two golf balls on the Moon in 1971, he claimed on live TV his second shot went "miles and miles and miles." In 2021, imaging specialist Andy Saunders matched original photos against modern satellite imagery to find the shots actually traveled just 24 and 40 yards.
1cb4e489-106a-4478-94f7-1345ab73dfdc	Michael Moore	In 1998 Columbia Pictures sued Miramax because the poster and trailer for Moore's documentary The Big One dressed him as a Man in Black — black suit, sunglasses, NYC skyline, oversized microphone in place of the oversized gun — under the tagline "Protecting the Earth from the scum of corporate America." A federal judge granted Columbia a preliminary injunction: parodying corporate America with the MIB campaign wasn't fair use, and the ads were pulled.
1cbc7833-08f1-43de-a08f-bc7cefa50c7e	Quark	Physicist Murray Gell-Mann named the subatomic particle "quark" in the 1960s after "Three quarks for Muster Mark" in James Joyce's Finnegans Wake — he'd already settled on the sound ("kwork") and found Joyce's spelling by chance.
1cec8bbb-d836-485f-9d27-8c5b60be5971	D.B. Cooper	On November 24, 1971, a man calling himself "Dan Cooper" hijacked a Boeing 727, extorted $200,000, and parachuted out over the Pacific Northwest — never identified. The FBI formally closed the case in July 2016; it remains the only unsolved act of air piracy in American aviation history.
1d545f21-c231-4648-b30b-e73336be40bc	WILT CHAMBERLAIN	His 100-point game (March 2, 1962) happened at Hershey Sports Arena in Hershey, PA, not Philadelphia — the Warriors played some "home" games there to build fan base. No video survives; only a partial 4th-quarter radio broadcast.
1da29648-bfa8-4349-8d92-c110c2e4fb47	"WE DIDN'T START THE FIRE" (Billy Joel)	(1989) rattles off 119 historical references roughly chronologically from 1949 (Joel's birth year) to 1989, sparked by a studio conversation where a 21-year-old told Joel "nothing happened in the fifties."
1eaebb7b-6e99-42ab-85af-9340f52ae15b	The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air	Aunt Vivian was recast after season 3 — Janet Hubert was let go following an on-set feud with Will Smith, replaced by Daphne Maxwell Reid, who beat out 200–300 other actresses at the recast audition.
1f950e78-5783-4573-b2ea-4f0de8a0f4cd	Etch A Sketch	The Etch A Sketch began as a shop-floor accident in 1950s France. Electrical technician Andre Cassagnes was installing a plastic light-switch decal at a wallpaper factory when he noticed it transferred an image to the surface behind it. He built a prototype he called 'L'Ecran Magique' ('the magic screen'), unveiled it at a 1959 toy fair, then licensed it to the Ohio Art Company, which launched it in the U.S. for Christmas 1960.
201e93fc-81f0-41a8-8f82-3c413c0cf7c1	The Goonies	The 1985 Spielberg-produced treasure-hunt film was shot on location in Astoria, Oregon, with the real "Goondocks" neighborhood standing in for the kids' threatened homes.
204d1bb1-0d1c-4f00-8ea6-f37c20dbade0	GERALD FORD	Grand Rapids native, played center for Michigan's undefeated 1932/1933 national-championship teams, voted team MVP senior year (1934).
21cad863-8936-4fa1-be1e-4a8f01d4f0c9	Nine Inch Nails	"Old Town Road" — 19 weeks at No. 1, the longest run in Billboard Hot 100 history — is built on a banjo loop Lil Nas X bought in a $30 beat that samples NIN's ambient track "34 Ghosts IV" (2008). Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross got songwriting credits and ended up CMA Award nominees; Reznor: "I didn't see that one coming."
22496619-2418-42a3-86ad-bfd3b1e49c28	A&W Root Beer	The name is the founders' last-name initials — Roy Allen and Frank Wright started as a Lodi, California root beer stand in 1919. When Allen bought Wright out and began selling territorial rights in 1925, A&W became one of the first restaurant chains in America built on the franchise model.
2249cd5a-0ce2-44a4-b569-41d61e1f4952	SIDEBURNS	"Sideburns" is a flipped corruption of "burnsides," named for Union Civil War general Ambrose Burnside, whose facial hair connected cheek whiskers to a mustache with a clean-shaven chin. Newspapers called it "Burnside whiskers" as early as 1866.
229c2370-786d-4728-bf4c-fe22a85d70f5	TEDDY BEAR	Nov. 1902, a Clifford Berryman cartoon showed Teddy Roosevelt refusing to shoot a tethered bear. Brooklyn candy shop owner Morris Michtom sewed a stuffed bear and put it in his window as "Teddy's Bear."
22cba681-f3e1-4c3f-8954-da7ccb6538dd	KOMODO DRAGON	Largest living lizard species (males up to 10 ft, 330 lbs). Long thought to kill via infectious saliva bacteria; 2009 MRI/venom-gland research proved a genuine venomous bite disrupting blood clotting.
23780c19-a027-4949-84d1-4e10ce0b14f9	Listerine	Listerine is named after Dr. Joseph Lister, pioneer of antiseptic surgery — it launched in the 1880s as a surgical disinfectant, not mouthwash. Decades later, ad man Gerald Lambert coined the word "halitosis" (Latin "halitus" = breath) to market it as bad-breath medicine, juicing sales from $100,000 to $4 million (1921–1927).
24e6e401-f881-4d2c-b23f-2450201f5979	Play-Doh	Play-Doh spent its first life as a wallpaper cleaner. Cincinnati's Kutol made a soft putty for rubbing coal soot off wallpaper; when cleaner home heating killed that market in the 1950s, a nursery-teacher relative realized children could mold it. Rebranded Play-Doh in 1956, it has since sold over three billion cans.
253c0fe8-6451-498f-bafd-de4c009e6d2c	DOUGHNUT	WWI Salvation Army volunteers Ensign Margaret Sheldon and Adjutant Helen Purviance fried doughnuts for American troops in France using soldiers' helmets as makeshift equipment, up to 9,000 a day. The "Doughnut Lassies" tie to soldier morale led the Salvation Army to create National Donut Day in 1938 in Chicago, a Depression-era fundraiser.
253ce0a6-01a4-4ed7-9a1a-f0727e6a528f	Frank Oz	The same performer voices and puppeteers both Yoda and Miss Piggy, and also did Cookie Monster, Bert, and Grover on Sesame Street.
26035a01-caff-4605-96f8-a8302db17b08	GUY (as in "guys")	After the 1605 Gunpowder Plot, crude straw effigies of Guy Fawkes ("guys") were burned every Nov. 5th. By 1836 "guy" meant any poorly/oddly dressed person in British English; by 1847 American English flattened it into a neutral word for any man at all.
26590e2a-3ef9-446a-9433-fac1b67b55bb	Operation Fortitude	Ahead of D-Day, the Allies built a fictional invasion force — the First United States Army Group — with inflatable rubber tanks, fake radio traffic, and dummy landing craft, publicly "commanded" by Gen. Patton, to convince Hitler the real invasion would hit Pas-de-Calais. Hitler held back Normandy reinforcements for seven weeks after D-Day.
26d67c8f-b1f3-4fe1-9f51-fa34aa4b77b7	AC/DC	After singer Bon Scott died of alcohol poisoning Feb. 1980, the band nearly disbanded — instead recruited Brian Johnson and recorded *Back in Black* seven weeks later (all-black cover as mourning). Sold ~50M copies, 2nd-best-selling album ever behind only *Thriller*; RIAA certified it 27x Platinum Aug. 21, 2024 — best-selling album in US history that never hit #1 on Billboard.
270c9a8f-277d-46a4-ba8b-211d07b9e3e9	MARIANA TRENCH	Challenger Deep plunges 10,935m (35,876 ft) — over 2km deeper than Everest is tall. In 2012, James Cameron (director of *Titanic* and *Avatar*) became the first person to solo-dive to the deepest point on the planet, alone in his submersible *Deepsea Challenger*.
2778a651-bcbb-40eb-a72a-c9025567c4a2	Cockpit	"Cockpit" started in 1587 as literally what it sounds like — a pit dug for cockfighting in Elizabethan England.
289192d5-4aed-44a5-94df-6a384c527972	The Haunted Mansion	The ride's iconic ghostly ballroom-dancer illusion is a live application of "Pepper's Ghost" — a stage trick popularized in 1862 by English scientist John Henry Pepper for a Christmas Eve production of a Dickens ghost story.
28b747bb-576b-4e28-84a9-7a345d732be0	Detroit Pistons	The Pistons weren't named for Detroit's auto industry — they arrived already named. Owner Fred Zollner ran the Zollner Piston Corporation, an auto-parts maker in Fort Wayne, Indiana, and named his 1941 team after his product. When he moved the franchise to Detroit in 1957, the name just happened to fit.
28cfb8cf-db71-44f0-a832-dce57f7f0e81	DOLLY THE SHEEP	Born 1996 at Scotland's Roslin Institute, the first mammal ever cloned from an adult cell rather than an embryo.
29029a1e-d04e-4d7f-acea-8efd7d3c9d61	Jumbo	The word "jumbo" for anything huge traces to ONE animal — Jumbo, the London Zoo African elephant P.T. Barnum bought in 1882 over massive public protest; jumbo jet, jumbo shrimp, and Jumbotron all descend from his name. Jumbo died in 1885 hit by a freight locomotive in St. Thomas, Ontario. Barnum donated the taxidermied hide to Tufts University, where it stood as mascot until an April 1975 fire destroyed Barnum Hall — the morning after, an employee swept Jumbo's ashes into an empty 14-oz Peter Pan crunchy peanut butter jar, which still sits in the Tufts athletic director's office, and athletes rub it for luck before games.
296aba76-b022-4acf-a67c-9344bda34f93	Better Made potato chips	Better Made potato chips have been made in Detroit since 1930, when Sicilian immigrants Cross Moceri and Peter Cipriano started frying chips in a garage after Moceri was denied a sales commission by another chip company. Nearly a century and 20-plus vanished local competitors later, the Cipriano family still owns it.
297b7d6a-83c8-46b4-a047-e5fd6c9ae949	Pluto	Pluto is the only planet (or, since 2006, dwarf planet) in the solar system named by an 11-year-old — Venetia Burney, an English schoolgirl, suggested the name to her grandfather over breakfast in 1930 after he read her the discovery news; the suggestion reached Lowell Observatory by telegram within days.
29e46860-3696-4a9e-9ac7-d1d9daa3c9e3	Immortal Jellyfish	Turritopsis dohrnii, discovered by a German biology student who accidentally left one in a jar too long in 1988, is the only known animal that can reverse its own aging — a stressed adult can revert to a juvenile polyp and restart its life cycle indefinitely.
2b58b1b8-1fe6-4556-aff9-42d7837f1489	THOR: RAGNAROK	Led Zeppelin's surviving members are famously stingy licensing their catalog to film — Taika Waititi got them to sign off on "Immigrant Song" only after starting talks extremely early and personally showing them the first trailer cut.
2bc4aa40-55bc-4879-8fd1-be98bfef04fa	University of Michigan	Apollo 15's crew, David Scott, Alfred Worden, and James Irwin, were all UMich alumni. Scott and Irwin left a 45-word plaque on the lunar surface reading "The University of Michigan Club of the Moon," making UMich the first and only school with a chartered alumni chapter on the moon.
2bd130d1-bc57-47d3-b686-47b74b178141	STATUE OF LIBERTY	Pre-dawn July 30, 1916, German agents blew up the Black Tom munitions depot in NY Harbor to stop US arms shipments to the Allies — a blast registering 5.5 on the Richter scale, felt 90 miles away in Philadelphia. Shrapnel struck the Statue of Liberty; its torch has been closed to visitors ever since.
2bf73b28-c40c-4a5d-8c8f-c22d45e63866	Sandra Bullock	In March 2010 she won Worst Actress at the Razzies (All About Steve) on Saturday and Best Actress at the Oscars (The Blind Side) on Sunday — the only performer ever to win both in the same weekend. She showed up to the Razzies in person towing a wagon loaded with All About Steve DVDs for the audience.
2bff2a19-6ac6-4199-b51e-c60af7dc17ed	THE NILE	One of the very few major rivers that flows north — empties into the Mediterranean after a ~7,000 km journey from sources near Lake Victoria (White Nile) and Lake Tana (Blue Nile), which merge at Khartoum.
2c8fb5f5-b646-42ab-9ccf-501afd5a0bfc	TENNESSEE	Has more official state songs than any other state — at least 14 and climbing (3 more added in 2024 alone).
2cdbabca-a527-4b4b-b2e5-4738c9f2d8fc	Bee Gees	The Bee Gees' "Stayin' Alive" (1977) runs at roughly 103 BPM — almost exactly the 100–120 BPM the American Heart Association recommends for CPR chest compressions — and the AHA now uses the song as an official training aid.
2d2e474f-f505-44ec-985a-0f5edaadf323	JIMI HENDRIX	July 1967, the Jimi Hendrix Experience opened for the Monkees on their US tour at the Monkees' own request — teenage fans hated it, chanting "We want Davy!", and Hendrix quit after about a week.
2d7f8e3b-bac1-4ff9-978f-895124aa81ff	Sacheen Littlefeather	The woman Marlon Brando sent to refuse his 1973 Oscar, citing Hollywood's treatment of Native Americans, was exposed by her own sisters in 2022 as having fabricated her Apache/Yaqui heritage entirely.
2e0d2596-40d7-4ec3-a20e-0b0db40494bf	GREAT BARRIER REEF	Made up of 2,900+ individual reefs and 900 islands stretching 2,300+ km — built entirely by billions of tiny coral polyps, the largest structure on Earth built by living organisms, visible from space.
2e6314b1-7d64-4a0f-b4ab-a5af75c69fa3	Neutron Star	A teaspoon of neutron star material would weigh about two billion tons on Earth — more than every human alive combined. In 2017, LIGO detected gravitational waves from two neutron stars colliding (GW170817); the resulting "kilonova" is now understood to be where most of the universe's gold comes from.
2e72d2b5-56c1-4164-9c18-47e80b6b2553	The Wizard of Oz	Terry, the Cairn Terrier who played Toto, earned $125 a week on the 1939 production — more than most of the human actors playing Munchkins, who made about $50 a week ($75 for speaking roles). Terry did her own stunts and even broke a leg on set after a Winkie guard's costume boot stepped on her.
2eaf6ef8-a417-476e-aee7-e82de3be944f	7 Up (original lithium citrate formula)	7 Up's original 1929 formula contained lithium citrate — a genuine psychiatric mood stabilizer still used today to treat bipolar disorder — and was marketed as a hangover cure and mood lifter. The FDA banned lithium from soft drinks in 1948, forcing a reformulation two years later.
2ed6f39b-fc28-42d6-8ed9-ed0949323f54	Big Thunder Mountain Railroad	An MSU urologist, David Wartinger, 3D-printed a model kidney and rode Big Thunder Mountain Railroad at Walt Disney World 20 times to test whether the ride helps pass kidney stones — the study found a ~70% dislodge success rate on that specific coaster (Space Mountain and Rock 'n' Roller Coaster failed).
2f243996-d38f-407c-aeb3-972f0e4a0b4a	The road centerline (Edward Hines, Michigan)	The painted centerline dividing traffic lanes was first laid down in 1911 by Edward Hines of the Wayne County (Michigan) Road Board, and is often called the single most important traffic-safety device ever devised. The charming story that a leaky milk wagon dripping a white trail gave him the idea is probably apocryphal.
2f284575-0b96-45c0-a860-c5903963b216	Rocky	Broke and unknown, Sylvester Stallone wrote the "Rocky" script in under four days after watching underdog journeyman Chuck Wepner go 15 rounds with Muhammad Ali in March 1975 — then turned down studio offers up to $360,000 for the script alone, refusing to sell unless he got to star.
2f34daeb-3618-40d1-b2cb-1f8b9f7abc8f	TARDIGRADE	In a 2007 ESA experiment (FOTON-M3/TARDIS), dehydrated tardigrades were exposed to the open vacuum of space and solar UV for 10 days — some survived, the first known animal to survive raw space exposure.
2f3f89fd-d60d-4bc4-b7a5-e8c92bd00133	"BLAZE OF GLORY" (Bon Jovi)	Jon Bon Jovi wrote it on a diner napkin after borrowing the *Young Guns II* script from star Emilio Estevez. Hit #1, Oscar-nominated for Best Original Song (lost to Madonna's "Sooner or Later"), won the Golden Globe.
2f842930-d00d-493c-ad9e-4b06f6cdc996	Andrew Jackson	In 1836 dairymen from Oswego County, NY shipped Jackson a 1,400-pound cheddar wheel — 4 feet across, hauled by 24 horses. He let it age in the White House Entrance Hall for over a year, then on February 22, 1837 (Washington's Birthday), weeks before leaving office, invited the public in; the whole wheel was devoured in about two hours. Successor Van Buren had to replace the drapes and repaint to kill the smell.
2f88daee-5e94-406e-97cc-90952e6ac5e4	Vernors	Vernors is the oldest surviving ginger ale in the United States, first served in Detroit in 1866 by James Vernor — Michigan's first registered pharmacist. Company legend says he aged the syrup in an oak cask while serving four years in the Civil War and came home to find it improved.
30910959-32ab-484e-b97d-854a3538747a	COBALT	From German *kobold* — a household goblin. Harz Mountains miners in the 1600s named the ore after the mischievous spirit because it looked like valuable ore but yielded nothing and poisoned them with arsenic fumes when smelted.
30ac2564-56b9-410d-95ab-fd1b9634215d	Thanos	Marvel writer-artist Jim Starlin created Thanos in 1973 (Iron Man #55) after a college psychology course introduced him to "Thanatos" — the personification of the death drive in psychoanalytic theory. Starlin has said in interviews he believed he was naming the character after a Freud concept; the death instinct was actually coined by Freud's colleague Wilhelm Stekel in 1909, not Freud himself.
3112911e-cd99-4b2a-ac14-fab41423ee7f	ROBOT	Czech writer Karel Čapek introduced "robot" to English in his 1920 play R.U.R. (premiered Jan 2, 1921), from Czech "robota" (forced labor) — Čapek credited his brother Josef with actually coining the word.
31366885-3afd-49c7-ab64-74b90652ceb6	Escalator	'Escalator' was once a brand name. Charles Seeberger coined it around 1900 from the Latin 'scala' (steps) plus 'elevator,' trademarked it, and sold the rights to Otis. But Otis used the word so loosely in its own advertising that a 1950 court ruled it had gone generic — the company lost the trademark by making it too famous.
3219f977-c8ce-4c79-af2f-6c3156625087	Denmark	From 1984 to 2022 Canada and Denmark fought the "Whisky War" over Hans Island, a 1.2 km² barren rock between Ellesmere Island and Greenland — each side's military would land, swap the flag, and leave the other a bottle (Danish schnapps/Gammel Dansk vs Canadian whisky). The June 14, 2022 treaty split the island along a natural ridge (~60% to Denmark), giving Canada its first land border with any country other than the US — a 1,280-meter line that is the northernmost international land border on Earth. The foreign ministers exchanged bottles at the signing.
326f2f6d-9feb-4572-bd73-c6cac3e0c392	Wiffle ball	The Wiffle ball's eight oblong holes exist so a 12-year-old could throw a curveball without straining his arm. David N. Mullany designed it in his Fairfield, Connecticut backyard in 1953 after his son complained that pitching a perforated plastic golf ball made his arm ache; the name comes from kids calling a strikeout a 'whiff.'
32da5583-d4d7-47a1-ab33-63613ffe1308	Bo Jackson	On March 25, 1986, Buccaneers owner Hugh Culverhouse flew him to Tampa on his private jet for a physical under assurance the trip was NCAA-cleared — it wasn't, and it voided the rest of his Auburn baseball season. Convinced it was sabotage to kill his baseball option, he warned the Bucs "You draft me if you want. You're going to waste a draft pick." They took him #1 overall anyway; he signed with the Kansas City Royals instead.
32f2b133-991a-4f7c-8965-d33da19709de	Gargantuan	"Gargantuan" comes from Gargantua, the enormous food-devouring giant in François Rabelais's 16th-century French novels — entering English in the 1590s.
3387d880-9e8a-441f-b87b-ab56e3a93054	Doritos (Casa de Fritos, Disneyland)	Doritos started as an anti-waste fix at a Disneyland restaurant. In the early 1960s, a cook at Casa de Fritos inside the park was told to stop throwing out stale tortillas, so he cut them into triangles, fried them, and gave them away free. A Frito-Lay executive noticed how popular the giveaway snack had become and took it national by 1966.
33b28cfa-4fcb-4b09-aad6-e58e61eae8de	Ozzy Osbourne	On January 20, 1982, at Des Moines' Veterans Memorial Auditorium, a teenage fan threw a bat onstage and Ozzy Osbourne bit its head off, thinking it was a rubber toy. It wasn't — he spent the rest of that tour getting nightly rabies-preventive shots in both arms, both thighs, and both cheeks. The stunt became a lightning rod for the religious right's 1980s crusade against heavy metal.
33c8390b-cc96-4465-b8bd-3122f18c9d29	WOODPECKER	A woodpecker's skull absorbs ~1,200 g's of force per peck, up to 20x/second, without concussion. UC Berkeley researchers reverse-engineered the mechanism into a shock absorber protecting test contents at 60,000 g's — proposed for flight-recorder protection (vs. ~1,000 g's a black box is built for).
33fd5913-9789-4726-9a32-4a7485aa7ec6	Twisted Sister	On September 19, 1985, Twisted Sister frontman Dee Snider testified before a U.S. Senate committee alongside Frank Zappa and John Denver, defending his band's lyrics against the Parents Music Resource Center's obscenity claims. He personally rebutted Tipper Gore's claim that "Under the Blade" promoted sadomasochism, explaining the song was actually about the fear of surgery. The hearing led directly to the "Parental Advisory" sticker still printed on albums today.
34158e29-8bfb-4d92-9fd5-2399a22eb75d	John Denver	At the 1975 CMA Awards, presenter Charlie Rich — the reigning Entertainer of the Year — tore open the envelope, pulled out a cigarette lighter, and set the winner's card ON FIRE on live TV before announcing "my friend, Mr. John Denver." Nashville read it as a protest against pop crossover; Rich's son says he was on pain meds for a broken foot plus dressing-room gin and tonics. Rich's career never recovered — no Top 10 hit again until 1977.
3428f45a-be04-43b4-bcf8-c6f8f72f563e	Segway (Dean Kamen / Jimi Heselden)	MYTH-BUST: The Segway inventor did NOT die on a Segway. Dean Kamen (the inventor) is alive; Jimi Heselden, the businessman who BOUGHT the company, drove one off a cliff on his estate in 2010. The garbled version circulates constantly in fact lists.
343753f4-1bef-494d-afc7-3b33e45b2aad	R.E.M.	Michael Stipe picked the name R.E.M. completely at random out of a dictionary in 1980, after the band nearly went with "Cans of Piss" or "Negro Eyes." Everyone assumes it stands for rapid eye movement — the dream stage of sleep — but when Dr. William Dement, the actual sleep scientist who coined the term "REM sleep," personally reached out to the band, they told him it wasn't named after REM sleep at all. Pure coincidence — one Dement found funny enough to put the band's photo in his own lectures.
344f80a8-449a-4a5a-833c-1361bb05da94	Twinkie	There's no such thing, legally, as the "Twinkie defense." At Dan White's 1979 trial for killing San Francisco Mayor George Moscone and Supervisor Harvey Milk, his lawyers argued longstanding, untreated depression diminished his capacity for premeditation — a psychiatrist cited White's sudden switch to junk food as a symptom of that depression, not a cause of murder. The press invented the "Twinkie defense" label; the term itself was never used in court. Fallout from the case was real, though: California abolished the "diminished capacity" defense entirely in 1982.
34ccc48b-e1ae-439b-864e-0be9b6ff2893	The designated hitter	The National League voted on adopting the DH in August 1980 — and the measure died 4–5 with 3 abstentions because Phillies owner Ruly Carpenter was unreachable on a family fishing trip, so VP Bill Giles, unsure how his boss wanted to vote once the start date slipped to 1982, had to abstain. The NL then went another 42 years without the DH, finally adopting it in 2022. Carpenter later read from his fishing log: that day he caught "six flounder, 12 weakfish, and two croakers."
354a040f-271f-4b1a-a568-4866dd1567db	Adobe	The software company Adobe is named after Adobe Creek, a small stream that ran behind co-founder John Warnock's home in Los Altos, California.
35dc471c-bb69-49a9-9778-98359351caff	Mata Hari	Dutch exotic dancer Margaretha Zelle performed as "Mata Hari" (Malay for "eye of the day," the sun). Convicted by French military tribunal of WW1 espionage on thin, largely circumstantial evidence, she was executed by firing squad at Vincennes on October 15, 1917.
367b3ee1-be7c-4668-ace2-206cce1b6e49	CLEVELAND GUARDIANS	The Indians rebranded to Guardians in 2022, named for the "Guardians of Traffic" — eight 1932 Art Deco pylon sculptures on the Hope Memorial Bridge next to the ballpark.
368448ae-9396-4fa0-8eec-25519f583fd9	AMELIA EARHART	Her July 1937 Pacific disappearance triggered a US Navy/Coast Guard search costing ~$4 million — the most expensive air-and-sea search in American history to that point — finding nothing.
368b222c-750c-48ee-ad3a-07b0c3f1764f	Oprah Winfrey	Oprah's hometown — Kosciusko, Mississippi (b. 1954, on her grandmother's farm) — and Australia's highest peak, Mount Kosciuszko (7,310 ft, named in 1840 by Polish explorer Paweł Strzelecki), are both named for the same man: Tadeusz Kościuszko, the Polish general of the American Revolution who engineered the fortifications at West Point. Kościuszko never set foot in Australia — he'd been dead 23 years when the mountain got his name.
372fcc18-151f-4eb0-93f5-9ee0c03e8993	DIANA ROSS	Born in Detroit (1944), lead singer of the Supremes, Motown's biggest act, per the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame popular enough to "rival even the Beatles."
373236f5-a499-4bac-998e-be8250538548	Survivor ("Eye of the Tiger")	Sylvester Stallone wanted a new song for Rocky III in 1982 and reportedly asked Queen for permission to use "Another One Bites the Dust" — they turned him down. He called up Survivor guitarist Frankie Sullivan instead, and Sullivan and keyboardist Jim Peterik wrote "Eye of the Tiger" on commission as the film's theme. It spent six weeks at No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 that summer and won the Grammy for Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group.
37ad114b-3c9e-411a-a902-a9d561e74916	ANATOMY OF A MURDER	The 1959 Jimmy Stewart courtroom classic was filmed entirely on location in Michigan's Upper Peninsula (Ishpeming, Marquette, Michigamme), based on a real 1952 murder trial there; world premiere held in Detroit.
3882c15b-1bc2-4e0f-828d-e67bce041fb6	Teflon	DuPont chemist Roy Plunkett discovered Teflon (PTFE) completely by accident on April 6, 1938, while testing a refrigerant gas — a supposedly empty cylinder was lined with a strange, slippery white polymer.
389434e4-c44e-4f4a-88ea-72f5df881ecf	Stockard Channing	She was 33 years old playing high-school senior Rizzo in Grease, thirteen years past the character's supposed age, and later joked she took the job because "the mortgage was whispering in my ear."
38a6d8af-372d-41da-9a5b-9d8248b1e3ab	VEGAS GOLDEN KNIGHTS	In their 2017-18 inaugural season, won the Pacific Division and reached the Stanley Cup Final — the first true expansion team in any of the 4 major US leagues to win its division in year one.
38b6113e-cc6f-4af0-81be-ee452243e619	Saran Wrap	Saran Wrap started as an accident in a Dow Chemical lab in Midland, Michigan in 1933, when researcher Ralph Wiley couldn't get a sticky film out of a beaker. Dow's first use wasn't food storage — the military sprayed it on fighter planes to protect against salty sea spray during WWII, and it went into car upholstery, before Dow sold it as kitchen wrap starting in 1949 (household version 1953).
39b4e53e-0aa9-4f52-bc46-3a6f7e9e9ae0	The Principality of Sealand	A retired British anti-aircraft sea fort 7 miles off the English coast has been claimed as an independent micronation since 1967, when a British family seized it from pirate radio broadcasters and declared it sovereign — complete with its own flag, currency, and passports, and a defense record that includes repelling both rival broadcasters and the Royal Navy with gunfire.
39c81f32-0bf3-42b5-99f7-7a921cc06d18	MALCOLM X	Family fled Omaha for Lansing, Michigan after KKK threats against his father; the home was later targeted by the white-supremacist Black Legion, and his father died under disputed circumstances there in 1931 when Malcolm was six.
3a005254-fc06-4adb-8943-9f8f99c55109	555	Phone companies pushed Hollywood to fake phone numbers with the 555 prefix starting in the early 1960s to stop pranksters dialing real numbers. Bruce Almighty ignored the rule in 2003 and gave "God's" phone number as a real, working number, flooding real people with calls before the studio swapped it for 555-0123 on DVD.
3a72f162-b633-41fd-9cee-9cc7c4bbd7bf	John Lasseter	Before founding Pixar, he helped build what's considered the first fully computer-generated character ever in a feature film, a knight stepping out of a stained-glass window in the largely-forgotten 1985 flop Young Sherlock Holmes.
3aa391e5-c7e5-40a6-9cc2-007aa6409355	Magic: The Gathering	Magic: The Gathering, released August 5, 1993, is Guinness World Records' official holder for "first modern trading card game" — Wizards of the Coast shipped 2.5 million cards to that year's Gen Con and sold out in weeks. It was inducted into the National Toy Hall of Fame in 2019.
3b1d183a-70de-40bb-88fc-5a207edf841c	Lyin' Eyes	In a 2008 Dublin murder-for-hire trial, the prosecutor quoted "you can't hide those lyin' eyes" in closing arguments - Sharon Collins had used the email "lyingeyes98@yahoo.ie" to hire a hitman off a website, and claimed she didn't know it was an Eagles lyric until after her arrest.
3b3ca4fd-866f-42f8-bcc1-8461f0438107	Detroit-style pizza	Detroit-style pizza was born in 1946 at Buddy's Rendezvous, a former speakeasy, when Gus Guerra baked a Sicilian-style pie in a blue-steel tray borrowed from the auto industry — pans originally made to hold small factory parts or catch drips under machinery. The tall steel sides are why the cheese caramelizes into those signature crispy edges.
3b3db78d-698d-4150-8e30-98199068c5da	CHARLES LINDBERGH	The 1932 kidnapping/murder of his 20-month-old son, "the Crime of the Century," directly pushed Congress to pass the Federal Kidnapping Act — still known as "the Lindbergh Law."
3be63459-7600-4534-a57e-95c3f092bef0	Whitney Houston	"I Will Always Love You" (The Bodyguard, 1992) was written by Dolly Parton in 1973 — Houston's version is Guinness-certified as the best-selling physical single by a female solo artist, at 24 million copies.
3c5f9c51-a362-4087-b4fb-e2a36026bd53	Point Nemo	The single most remote spot on Earth's oceans sits 1,670 miles from the nearest land in any direction — so isolated that its closest human neighbors, when the ISS passes overhead, are literally astronauts in orbit 250 miles up. Space agencies exploit that emptiness deliberately: it's the designated crash site for dead satellites and space stations, over 250 of them so far, including Russia's Mir.
3ccf59fa-9a4d-477f-bedf-2c328253eac6	The Godfather	The severed horse's head in the 1972 film was real — Coppola's crew found a horse already destined for slaughter at a New Jersey dog-food plant and had the head shipped to the set packed in dry ice, rather than kill an animal for the film. The American Humane Association, which monitored the shoot, approved the scene at the time since the horse's death wasn't caused by the production; that approval was criticized by the organization's own later leadership.
3dc9bd4a-8143-4133-8012-16ecbfd4f42c	SITTING BULL	After Little Bighorn, toured 4 months in 1885 with Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show.
3dd5a064-873c-46b8-9a10-33eaa0cccbb4	Deion Sanders	On September 5, 1989, he homered for the Yankees off the Mariners; five days later, in his NFL debut, he returned a punt 68 yards for an Atlanta Falcons touchdown — the only person ever to hit an MLB home run and score an NFL touchdown in the same week (Guinness-certified).
3e16316e-9368-41e1-9c04-bcc9501d0193	Eddie Gaedel	The shortest player in MLB history was Eddie Gaedel, 3-foot-7 and 65 pounds, sent up to bat by showman owner Bill Veeck for the 1951 St. Louis Browns wearing number '1/8.' Pitchers couldn't find his tiny strike zone, so he walked on four pitches; the league voided the stunt the next day, leaving his career on-base percentage a perfect 1.000.
3e276202-c24d-43fd-b04a-9f36eca19e4e	The Kraken	Carl Linnaeus — the father of scientific classification — listed the Kraken as a real animal in the first edition of Systema Naturae (1735), classifying it as a cephalopod under the name Microcosmus marinus. He quietly dropped it from later editions, though his 1746 Fauna Suecica still described it as "a unique monster" in Norwegian seas (with a disclaimer that he'd never seen one).
3e39b24f-4e72-4ad7-8127-354970200de2	Somewhere in Time	The 1980 Christopher Reeve time-travel romance was filmed almost entirely at the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island, Michigan — an island that has banned motor vehicles since an 1898 ordinance passed after cars kept spooking carriage horses.
3ec43363-de4b-4c21-adc9-c6c4fc1b3b13	NICOTINE	Named for Jean Nicot, France's ambassador to Portugal, who shipped tobacco seeds to Paris in 1561 and gave leaves to Catherine de Medici as a migraine cure.
3ec94b9e-d136-4d8d-a6c1-89a8b1e83d5b	RADIOHEAD	Before Radiohead, the Oxford band was "On a Friday." EMI wanted a new name, so they lifted "Radiohead" from Talking Heads' 1986 song "Radio Head" (album *True Stories*, written for David Byrne's film of the same name).
3f148fc0-0b6d-4d8d-a7f0-b129419f6b59	Psycho	The blood in the 1960 shower scene was Hershey's chocolate syrup, chosen because it read more convincingly than stage blood on black-and-white film stock. Hitchcock originally wanted the scene to run with no music at all; composer Bernard Herrmann wrote the now-famous shrieking string cue anyway, Hitchcock heard it and reversed himself on the spot, later saying "33% of the effect of Psycho was due to the music."
3f2bcdb9-b78e-4be8-9da0-5f247457dd5a	Cadillac	Detroit folklore says the city's French founder Antoine de la Mothe Cadillac was warned by a fortune teller about a demon called the Nain Rouge but struck it with his cane and cursed it instead; his fortune collapsed soon after. Wikipedia notes no record of the legend exists before the 1880s, nearly 180 years after his supposed 1701 encounter.
3ff060d3-e473-4d18-af0d-51ede8667c6d	The Slinky	The Slinky exists because a naval engineer, Richard James, was trying to design torsion springs to keep sensitive ship instruments steady in rough seas at a Philadelphia shipyard in 1943. He knocked one off a shelf, watched it 'walk' end over end instead of just falling, and had a toy company within a year. His wife Betty found the name in a dictionary.
41f52331-52b1-4ef8-9e03-a3d4ecc183f4	KENTUCKY DERBY	The "garland of roses" tradition began 1896 (554 red roses on green satin), inspired by socialite E. Berry Wall handing out roses at an 1883 post-Derby party. "Run for the Roses" nickname coined by sportswriter Bill Corum in 1925.
42a31d9c-dad7-477a-827e-50324bb8f7b7	TRIVIA	From Latin *trivia*, plural of *trivium* — "the place where three roads meet" (*tri-* + *via*). Romans also called this a *trivius dea*, "goddess of three ways," another name for Hecate, patron of crossroads.
430e4b0f-d9d3-4b6f-a574-04e88beec344	VIEW-MASTER	Debuted at the 1939 New York World's Fair as a modern alternative to scenic postcards, invented by Portland photographer William Gruber.
434f23fb-06ce-4a01-a395-0155ed350a7c	RUBIK'S CUBE	Invented 1974 by Ernő Rubik, a Hungarian design/architecture teacher, as a teaching tool for 3D structural movement — not a toy. Patented 1975 as "Magic Cube."
43562081-25d4-4569-8538-c58076b2088e	JOHN DILLINGER	July 22, 1934, shot dead by federal agents outside Chicago's Biograph Theater leaving a screening of *Manhattan Melodrama*.
439272ec-c1e4-41f3-b3d9-b726516b911a	PONTIAC	In May 1763, Odawa war chief Pontiac led a tribal coalition in a months-long siege of British-held Fort Detroit, briefly seizing 9 of 11 British forts in the Ohio Valley (Pontiac's War). Made peace in 1766, assassinated 1769. GM named its Pontiac auto brand after the Michigan city bearing his name (1926-2010).
43e11a40-0456-46e2-b22c-d13c5b09c9e3	Back to the Future	Eric Stoltz was the original Marty McFly and shot roughly five weeks of footage before director Robert Zemeckis fired him for playing the role too seriously and recast Michael J. Fox, adding about $3 million to the budget for reshoots. Fox was still under contract to NBC's sitcom Family Ties at the time, so for weeks he filmed the sitcom by day and Back to the Future by night.
443cdb5c-403c-499e-9793-1c17b7da2f2b	John Ratzenberger	In January 1993 he and George Wendt sued Host International over animatronic robot versions of Cliff and Norm drinking in Cheers-replica airport bars Host had licensed from Paramount — Paramount owned the characters, but the actors owned their faces. The right-of-publicity fight (Wendt v. Host International) ran eight years, reached the Supreme Court (which turned Paramount away in 2000), and settled in 2001.
4442cdbc-298e-4e6f-809e-770f5dafb7fb	Life Savers	MYTH-BUST: Life Savers were not invented after a candy maker's child choked to death on hard candy — that popular tearjerker is false. In 1912, Ohio candy maker Clarence Crane simply borrowed a pill-stamping machine from a pharmacy to punch a hole in his mints so they wouldn't melt in summer like his chocolates did, and named them for their life-preserver shape.
44b32861-dd32-4cbd-afb8-42ebca56e8fa	Little Brown Jug	College football's Michigan-Minnesota trophy started as a paranoid mistake: worried Minnesota might tamper with the water supply before their unbeaten 1903 showdown, Michigan coach Fielding Yost bought a 30-cent water jug — then left it behind. Minnesota's equipment man found it, painted the 6-6 final score on it, and the schools turned it into a traveling trophy in 1909.
44e5a1b3-4406-42f7-890e-b418dd939ac2	PETRA	Petra's Treasury facade, carved by the Nabataeans 2,000+ years ago, played the Holy Grail temple in *Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade*. In 2024, archaeologists digging beneath it found a real intact 2,000-year-old tomb with at least 12 skeletons.
454d86bd-d8b9-4a2a-b419-e1192c0128c1	LAIKA	Nov. 3, 1957, the USSR launched stray dog Laika aboard Sputnik 2 — first animal to orbit Earth. Soviet officials claimed she survived days; she actually died within hours from cabin overheating.
46e3a5ac-9770-4190-8d0f-10352f30d27f	THE SIXTH SENSE	M. Night Shyamalan deliberately kept the color red almost entirely out of the film except in moments tied to the supernatural (a doorknob, a tent, a balloon, a shirt).
47eedf99-5ef1-419d-92d2-38e12827d36c	The Heimlich maneuver (Henry Heimlich)	Dr. Henry Heimlich published his namesake choking-rescue technique in 1974 — then, by his own account, didn't personally perform it on a real choking victim until he was 96 years old, in his own retirement community. His son Peter has publicly disputed both of his father's claimed 'first use' stories as fabricated.
484ea88a-3223-490e-9252-e6d716b0bc85	Se7en	A San Francisco photographer named Jorge Sandoval sued the makers of Se7en, claiming ten of his own copyrighted self-portraits were used without permission as the unsettling photos pinned to the serial killer's apartment wall. Courts ruled the use "de minimis."
485b0b5d-95cf-4fd8-ab41-9e219804e97e	TRANSYLVANIA	The real Romanian region where Vlad the Impaler (Dracula's inspiration) was born shares its name with Transylvania University in Lexington, KY — chartered 1780, oldest university west of the Alleghenies, founders including Henry Clay, alumni including two US VPs and three Supreme Court justices.
48b71566-d764-47be-978b-6e9ba76e6dbe	Spirit in the Sky	The fuzz-rock gospel anthem about dying with Jesus was written by Norman Greenbaum — an Orthodox-raised Jewish one-hit wonder — in about 15 minutes after he saw Porter Wagoner sing a gospel number on TV and thought "I could do that." He picked "Jesus" over anything from his own faith because it was more marketable; he later left music to run a dairy farm.
49bc39f4-3e6f-4b9e-8be3-3d9cd96cf593	Zebra	In 2025 a team of Japanese researchers won the Ig Nobel Prize in Biology for painting black cattle with white, zebra-style stripes — the pattern cut biting-fly landings by up to 50%, building on a 2014 study of why zebras evolved stripes in the first place.
49d5249d-26c3-431f-b7ee-a2a133f83a72	Arthur Conan Doyle	The creator of literature's greatest rationalist was completely fooled by two schoolgirls. In 1917, cousins Elsie Wright (16) and Frances Griffiths (9) photographed "fairies" in Cottingley, England — paper cutouts traced from a 1914 children's book (Princess Mary's Gift Book) and propped up with hatpins. Doyle publicly endorsed the photos and wrote a whole book about them, The Coming of the Fairies (1922). The cousins didn't confess until 1983 — 66 years later.
4ada0f0c-fbd9-4cca-b12f-37160cafdf30	TREVOR HOFFMAN	Starting July 25, 1998, Hoffman entered Padres save situations to AC/DC's "Hells Bells" with a tolling-bell scoreboard animation ("Trevor Time") — so popular other teams requested tape of it.
4bd9e2a5-04ff-4373-b0d7-ae645b49b0a4	Silly Putty	Silly Putty was a WWII failure. A GE engineer, James Wright, was trying to make a cheap synthetic rubber and instead got a bouncing goo that copied newsprint but was useless for tires. A marketer, Peter Hodgson, later packaged it in plastic Easter eggs in 1950 and sold a quarter-million in three days.
4c61406f-2770-40fe-87d3-1d315fac7b04	Kit Kat	In Japan, Kit Kats are exam-season good luck charms because 'Kitto Katto' sounds like 'kitto katsu' — 'you will surely win.' Roughly one in three Japanese students buys them before entrance exams, and Nestlé prints encouragement messages on special exam editions.
4c776b13-e615-4e23-a2e0-bbe85a0aca1f	Annie Oakley	In 1903 Hearst's Chicago papers reported Annie Oakley had been jailed for stealing a man's trousers to fund a cocaine habit — the arrestee was actually a burlesque performer working under the stage name "Any Oakley." Oakley spent the next six years suing all 55 papers that ran the story, one by one, in one of the largest libel actions in US history — and won or settled all but one. Hearst even hired an investigator to dig up dirt on her; he found nothing.
4d33d955-2b93-4cfb-bbd7-24c4192ee424	Susan Sarandon	The Oscar winner (Dead Man Walking) voiced Granny Rags — a blind, deranged, black-magic street witch — in the 2012 video game Dishonored, in a cast that also hid Carrie Fisher (as the government propaganda loudspeakers), Lena Headey, Michael Madsen, Brad Dourif and John Slattery. She took the gig because her son asked her to.
4de1a0d7-a92e-439f-81e9-a89ce534b48d	the Netherlands	In January 1943, Canada's government declared one maternity ward of Ottawa Civic Hospital temporarily extraterritorial so that Princess Margriet — born there while the Dutch royal family sat out the Nazi occupation in exile — would be born solely a Dutch citizen, not a British subject. The day she was born, the Dutch tricolour flew from the Peace Tower — the only foreign flag ever flown over Canada's Parliament. The oft-told version that the ward "became Dutch soil" is false: it was made no-man's-land, not Dutch territory.
4de5d2b7-991f-4c98-a9de-9ab7fe4f4ea4	Frisbee	The Frisbee is named after the Frisbie Pie Company of Bridgeport, Connecticut — Yale students flung the empty pie tins and yelled 'Frisbie!' as a warning. When Wham-O bought Fred Morrison's 'Pluto Platter' flying disc in 1957, they took the name and changed one letter to dodge a trademark fight.
4e0a0c13-c0ee-4736-bd27-53ac538f8cc7	GALÁPAGOS ISLANDS	Named for their giant tortoises — "galápago" is an old Spanish/pre-Roman word for tortoise. Charles Darwin visited in 1835 aboard HMS Beagle, observations that fed directly into his theory of evolution.
504ac4fa-5819-4f24-9c44-a2392f113beb	MUSCLE	"Muscle" comes from Latin "musculus," literally "little mouse" — Romans thought a flexing bicep looked like a mouse scurrying under the skin.
5099223d-33d0-499a-b5c6-3968c1a0f144	METALLICA	Dec. 8, 2013, played "Freeze 'Em All" at Argentina's Carlini Base in Antarctica inside a dome, broadcast to the live audience over headphones (amplified sound risked damaging local wildlife/ice) — first band ever to perform on all 7 continents.
50b98060-9364-4be8-ba64-b3395c0dc25d	Supertramp	Supertramp took its name from a 1908 memoir, "The Autobiography of a Super-Tramp" by Welsh vagabond-poet W.H. Davies, after guitarist Richard Palmer suggested it to replace the band's original name: "Daddy."
50f86ed1-7989-47b1-acf8-ded37caef937	PORTUGUESE MAN O WAR	Not a jellyfish — a siphonophore, a colony of four specialized polyps acting as one animal. Tentacles average ~30 ft, can stretch past 100 ft.
51c7515a-f123-4b72-89d4-a244a5a21d38	DEATH VALLEY	Holds the hottest reliably-measured temp on Earth — 130°F at Furnace Creek (Aug 16 2020, July 9 2021); the older 134°F/1913 WMO record is now publicly disputed by meteorologists as ~14°F too high. Also holds the opposite extreme: Badwater Basin sits 282 ft below sea level (lowest point in North America), 15 miles from Telescope Peak (11,043 ft) — the steepest high-low swing over the shortest distance in the Lower 48.
524136b2-886b-48e5-8089-4684cf8b57dc	NEW COKE	In 1985, Coca-Cola reformulated its 99-year-old recipe into "New Coke" after Pepsi Challenge-style blind taste tests — and reversed course in just 79 days after 40,000+ angry calls/letters, bringing back the original formula as "Coca-Cola Classic."
527e22e2-cf8c-459a-962f-4a0c43548719	St. Valentine's Day Massacre	The Tommy guns used in the 1929 Chicago massacre were only recovered because gangster Fred "Killer" Burke fled to Michigan, killed a cop in a car-crash aftermath in St. Joseph, and a raid on his house there turned up the weapons - matching them via rifling marks became one of the first major uses of forensic ballistics in US history.
528b2ac6-7de5-48ce-8c93-581811bca429	NIRVANA	When Kurt Cobain's Nirvana hit big in 1992, a nearly-forgotten 1960s British psychedelic-pop duo — also called Nirvana, formed in London in 1965 by Patrick Campbell-Lyons and Alex Spyropoulos — sued for sole rights to the name. Settled out of court May 2, 1992, reportedly for $100,000, letting both bands keep the name.
5328a0a3-55cb-49d5-a149-935f3b3ae8d0	The Rocky Horror Picture Show	It flopped on opening (Sept 26, 1975) and Fox withdrew it everywhere but LA — then relaunched it as a midnight movie at Greenwich Village's Waverly Theater on April Fools' Day 1976, and because Fox never formally pulled the title, it is technically still on its original 1975 release: the longest-running theatrical release in film history, 50 years and counting. (Prominence note: the record sits in the Wikipedia lead — the never-pulled/April Fools' mechanics are the deep layer to build on.)
53674704-be99-4eb3-927e-496ff9ff5e28	The White House	Its entire interior is a 1950s rebuild. In summer 1948 a leg of Margaret Truman's piano broke through the second floor; engineers found split beams and declared the building "standing only from force of habit." From late 1948 to March 1952 it was gutted to its outer sandstone shell — bulldozers drove around inside — and rebuilt on a steel frame for $5.4M while the Trumans lived across the street at Blair House.
5570e889-97e3-46ba-8a22-3a88e501bc39	Renegade	Barack Obama's Secret Service code name is "Renegade," officially assigned by the White House Communications Agency in November 2008. Per tradition, the rest of his immediate family got names starting with the same letter: Michelle is "Renaissance," daughters Malia and Sasha are "Radiance" and "Rosebud."
561665f0-ac78-4427-a658-2ee2978a9fd4	WAYNE GRETZKY	As a junior player for the Sault Ste. Marie Greyhounds, Gretzky wanted No. 9 to honor Gordie Howe — taken, so his coach suggested doubling it: 99. The NHL retired 99 league-wide Feb. 6, 2000 — the only number ever retired across every NHL team, explicitly modeled on MLB retiring Jackie Robinson's 42 league-wide in 1997.
567ab01b-f422-4111-b9dd-bf2452748fec	MARIE CURIE	Still the only person in history to win Nobel Prizes in two different scientific fields — Physics (1903) and Chemistry (1911).
569e48f7-0012-4037-9640-e2615edea2e9	Neptune	Deep inside Neptune (and Uranus), scientists believe the pressure is so extreme that methane gets crushed apart and its carbon atoms reassemble into actual diamonds, which then rain down through the planet's interior. In 2017, SLAC's X-ray laser recreated those exact pressure-and-heat conditions on ordinary plastic in a lab and filmed diamonds forming in real time, confirming the theory.
56c3fd68-c8be-4352-b5cf-dae2335cb1ad	Devils Tower	On September 24, 1906, Theodore Roosevelt used the brand-new Antiquities Act to name this 1,267-foot Wyoming volcanic formation the very first U.S. National Monument — before the National Park Service even existed (est. 1916).
56d40772-8b0a-423a-8843-e9b61a6c50ea	Elmo	On April 23, 2002, Elmo testified before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, HHS and Education — in a tiny suit, lobbying for school music-education funding — the first Muppet ever to appear in an official capacity before Congress. Per the House's own historical archives, he was also the first congressional witness to try to eat the microphone.
5721ffc0-ae14-4dea-9bab-7544f11af8d8	GREENLAND SHARK	Longest-living vertebrate known to science — estimated 250 to 500+ years old, via radiocarbon-dating eye-lens proteins. Doesn't reach sexual maturity until ~age 150.
58f24f15-2405-44a2-8515-0381b23b0f6b	Monaco	At just under 0.8 square miles, Monaco is the second-smallest sovereign country on Earth — smaller than New York's Central Park, behind only Vatican City.
5a39d5eb-1ece-48c0-88e7-e78a751018e1	ZZ Top	Drummer Frank Beard is the only member of ZZ Top without a beard — Billy Gibbons and Dusty Hill grew their trademark beards during a mid-1970s hiatus and never shaved again.
5a53f905-44fe-4705-8367-d9dd44e3d7fc	NICKELBACK	Bassist Mike Kroeger coined the name working a Vancouver Starbucks register — $1.95 coffee, customers paying with $2, him saying "here's your nickel back." Prior band name: Village Idiot.
5aca581c-876e-4ab8-938e-4a4a5f82302e	Bewitched	Darrin Stephens was recast mid-run — Dick York, sidelined by a degenerative spinal injury and painkiller dependency, collapsed on set in 1968 and was replaced for the final three seasons by Dick Sargent, who had actually been the producers' first choice back in 1964.
5b061381-aa36-4d6d-ac60-03ca55e6afa6	Dungeons & Dragons	D&D is the only traditional tabletop role-playing game ever inducted into the National Toy Hall of Fame (2016) — it beat out Clue, Uno, and Rock 'Em Sock 'Em Robots that year, and no other RPG has joined the Hall since.
5b2806d6-5441-43db-8617-5d716e56ddac	Cracker Jack	Cracker Jack started putting a 'Prize in Every Box' in 1912 and had handed out roughly 17 billion toys by the time Frito-Lay finally pulled physical prizes in 2016, replacing them with a scan-code sticker for a digital game instead.
5b90d6d0-9d4c-4e9b-ac48-3b887ed22a60	YAHTZEE	Invented by an anonymous Canadian couple who played it on their yacht ("The Yacht Game") and approached entrepreneur Edwin S. Lowe to manufacture sets as gifts — Lowe trademarked "Yahtzee" in 1956.
5bbbe26b-bbca-44d1-95e7-94cd4c58b23b	FIG NEWTON	Not named for Sir Isaac Newton — Kennedy Biscuit Company plant manager James Hazen named it in 1891 after Newton, Massachusetts, the Boston suburb where it was made.
5be764cf-82dd-4df3-bf4e-d2975cf0ce89	Danny Trejo	Robert Rodriguez first wrote "Machete" for Danny Trejo in the '90s, then quietly slipped him into the family-friendly Spy Kids trilogy as the kids' gadget-dealing uncle, nearly a decade before spinning him off into the ultra-violent Machete franchise.
5c87762f-3e50-4b7a-9b89-4679079b8823	Lord	"Lord" comes from Old English "hlafweard" — literally "loaf-ward," the guardian of the household's bread.
5cc485c7-b582-479a-94f5-6b7c5e014110	Milburn Pennybags	Monopoly's mascot wasn't officially named "Mr. Monopoly" until a 1999 Hasbro rebrand — for decades before that he was "Rich Uncle Pennybags," full name Milburn Pennybags, first named in a 1946 Parker Brothers game called Rich Uncle.
5d889ff5-2d9e-4599-83ab-ef7a28801dc9	NIKE	Nike Inc. renamed itself in 1971 after the Greek goddess of victory. That same year, Portland State design student Carolyn Davidson designed the "swoosh" and was paid just $35 by co-founder Phil Knight.
5dc89953-4059-4972-b8b5-894095f6bab0	Barenaked Ladies	The name was a total accident. Ed Robertson's cover band fell apart right before a battle-of-the-bands slot; to keep the booking, he improvised on the phone that his "new" band was called Barenaked Ladies — a nonsense name he and Steven Page used to invent together for fun. It stuck. Years later, Robertson wrote CBS's "The Big Bang Theory" theme song in about 15 minutes in the shower, after show creators Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady happened to catch him freestyle-rapping about the actual Big Bang at a BNL concert.
5f208a53-94be-487d-b73e-3f4b53a00413	99 Luftballons	Nena's guitarist Carlo Karges got the idea at a 1982 Rolling Stones concert in West Berlin, when the band released a stack of balloons into the sky — he watched one drift toward East Berlin and imagined a Cold War radar operator mistaking it for an incoming threat. He wrote the lyrics that same night.
5f720c28-cc37-4fd2-9846-57ed82f9e5b6	Mario Lemieux	On December 31, 1988, Mario Lemieux scored five goals in one game in all five legal ways: even strength, power play, shorthanded, on a penalty shot, and into an empty net. No NHL player has ever repeated it, and fans later voted it the greatest moment in league history.
5fddf7dd-e9b6-4681-b3af-7c4d209f73f1	FROZEN	Rapunzel and Flynn Rider from *Tangled* appear as background wedding guests in Elsa's coronation crowd — a deliberate Disney crossover cameo.
60169d0f-df9a-4252-9e73-f24743c2bf22	CAP'N CRUNCH	His original voice (1963-1988) was Daws Butler, the same actor behind Huckleberry Hound and Quick Draw McGraw — based on 1930s character actor Charles Butterworth.
6021906c-904a-44a3-a743-f7d66496ed5b	Def Leppard	Def Leppard started life as "Deaf Leopard" — a name Joe Elliott dreamed up in English class. His bandmates hated being named after a hearing-impaired animal, so drummer Tony Kenning suggested swapping the spelling. Nobody noticed for about a month that the new spelling now echoed Led Zeppelin — and once they did, they decided they'd rather look like Zeppelin than the alternative they were about to pick, The Flying Lizards.
604d3b28-93a7-4f3a-ab53-11ef089d382e	JAMES EARL JONES	Raised from age 5 on his grandparents' farm in Dublin, Michigan (near Manistee); developed a severe stutter that kept him nearly silent through grade school until a high-school English teacher had him recite poetry aloud to break it. Graduated University of Michigan with a drama degree.
60858c47-487e-4b76-b5b8-2c7223f3aef3	a-ha	a-ha's video for "Take On Me" (1985) used rotoscope animation — roughly 3,000 frames hand-traced over live footage — taking 16 weeks and winning six MTV VMAs in 1986.
61804cff-b815-47a3-828a-6dcc937cd6a9	LAKE BAIKAL	World's oldest lake (25-30M years) and deepest (5,387 ft), holding ~20% of Earth's unfrozen fresh water — more than all 5 Great Lakes combined. Only place with a seal species living exclusively in fresh water — the Baikal seal (nerpa).
61c8e4f8-88de-4ebe-9030-9d23c88491c7	My Sharona	Doug Fieger — the Detroit-born, Oak Park-raised frontman of The Knack who wrote and sang 1979's biggest US hit "My Sharona" — was the kid brother of Geoffrey Fieger, the flamboyant Southfield lawyer who defended Jack Kevorkian. One Michigan family: the #1 song of 1979 and Dr. Death's attorney.
61e5b836-8c81-4d4a-944f-f2212943b8aa	Grease	John Travolta was 23 playing 18-year-old Danny Zuko in the 1978 film; Olivia Newton-John, playing 17-year-old Sandy, actually turned 29 during production.
62157959-89b5-4d13-bc0b-5fbffaab3954	Donald Keck	The modern internet runs partly on glass fiber invented by a Lansing, Michigan native. Donald Keck, who earned all three of his degrees from Michigan State University, worked with Robert Maurer and Peter Schultz at Corning in 1970 to create the first optical fiber clear enough for long-distance telecommunications — the trio received the National Medal of Technology for it in 2000.
6299e890-2691-4c7f-83cf-df946986cedd	NERD	The earliest print appearance of "nerd" is Dr. Seuss's 1950 book *If I Ran the Zoo*, just the name of a fictional creature. By Oct. 1951, Newsweek was already using it as slang for a socially awkward person.
62c7cd6f-af12-4d5a-bee0-998abc948029	THE HINDENBURG	LZ 129 was named after German President Paul von Hindenburg, who as president appointed Hitler chancellor in 1933. Caught fire docking at Lakehurst, NJ on May 6, 1937, burned in ~32 seconds, killing 36 — ended the passenger airship era.
62f54659-0acb-4577-91d5-904524befd5f	AVOCADO	From Nahuatl (Aztec) *āhuacatl*, which literally also meant "testicle" — almost certainly a shape joke.
63df0d5f-68d0-45e3-9902-554809d99b0b	a crossword (puzzle)	In the month before D-Day, the Daily Telegraph's crossword answers included UTAH, OMAHA, OVERLORD, MULBERRY, and NEPTUNE — the invasion's top-secret code names. MI5 arrested the compiler, Leonard Dawe, a Surrey school headmaster, and interrogated him as a suspected spy before clearing it as coincidence. The deeper layer: in 1984 former pupil Ronald French revealed Dawe had schoolboys fill in his blank grids — boys who hung around nearby US and Canadian troop camps soaking up soldiers' loose talk.
63f0b3c1-0987-4d24-b64c-3f0129d46240	The Butterfly Effect	MIT meteorologist Edward Lorenz coined the term while studying why weather forecasts kept failing — he found that rounding a single decimal in his computer model produced wildly different long-term weather. He named it after the title of his 1972 academic talk asking whether the flap of a butterfly's wings in Brazil could set off a tornado in Texas (he'd originally used a seagull, but was talked into the butterfly for poetry's sake).
640aad08-ec35-4ea0-b9ca-8d90d58572a5	Graham cracker	Graham crackers were invented in 1829 by Presbyterian minister Sylvester Graham, not as a treat but as a bland "anti-lust" health food — he believed rich, flavorful diets fueled sexual desire and moral decay, and preached a whole-wheat, bland-food regimen (plus cold showers and hard mattresses) to curb it.
6440dc75-eceb-4d64-8de2-bb2859c8bd73	PEZ	PEZ dispensers were designed in 1948 to look like cigarette lighters — the candy was marketed to European adults as a smoking-cessation aid under the slogan 'Smoking prohibited, PEZing allowed.' The cartoon character heads everyone collects today weren't added until the brand relaunched for American kids in the 1950s.
64a62281-deb1-4b00-a8c1-27ede153d23d	GROOT	Vin Diesel personally recorded "I am Groot" himself in at least 15 different languages for Marvel's global marketing, plus hundreds of English takes with different inflections.
652309e3-25e7-4e07-bf46-8f31e1f377dc	The Harlem Globetrotters	Founded by Abe Saperstein in 1926 with players from Chicago's South Side — they had no connection to Harlem and didn't play a single game there until 1968, over 40 years in. Saperstein picked the name because Harlem was the capital of Black culture and an out-of-town name added mystique.
6552ff50-0d48-4257-8544-7268a1e62b0c	BIG WHEEL	The low-slung plastic tricycle with the giant front wheel was introduced by Louis Marx and Company in 1969, inducted into the National Toy Hall of Fame in 2009.
655bc0bc-b9c7-4b77-9a74-843b3acf5d03	Petoskey Stone	Michigan's official state stone is fossilized coral — Hexagonaria percarinata — from a warm shallow tropical sea that covered the whole state roughly 350 million years ago during the Devonian. Gov. George Romney signed it into law in 1965.
659579fe-1e92-42ad-a4e9-c45526c34d46	Rawhide	Ronald Reagan's Secret Service codename was "Rawhide" — chosen because Reagan kept horses at his California ranch.
671ee02e-effb-40c1-8c0d-d3dc9e27a02c	GRITTY	The Philadelphia Flyers' mascot debuted Sept. 24, 2018, divisive enough at first that The Guardian called him "an acid trip of a mascot" — within two months he had more Twitter followers than any other NHL mascot, then was voted #1 NHL mascot by the players' union in 2019.
67373a87-ea2e-4d5b-bdc7-41b743435a93	RAIN	"Precipitation" is a "kangaroo word" — it contains the letters of a shorter synonym, "rain," in the same left-to-right order, hiding inside it like a joey in its mother's pouch.
6762946c-796b-4534-a207-66f896ef66ef	BATMAN V SUPERMAN: DAWN OF JUSTICE	The Batman/Superman fight scenes were filmed inside Michigan Central Station — Detroit's abandoned 1913 train depot, empty and vandalized for nearly three decades. Production spent ~$131M in Michigan.
67bea910-8bae-479d-b271-538598aa408c	JAWS	The 25-foot mechanical shark built for *Jaws* (1975) was nicknamed "Bruce" by the crew, after Bruce Ramer, Spielberg's real-life lawyer. Three functioning Bruces were built; one survives, restored, hanging in the Academy Museum atrium in LA.
691ffcac-c635-4144-aa89-4af4ac16cd46	Little Caesars	Little Caesars started in 1959 in a Garden City, Michigan strip mall, funded by Mike and Marian Ilitch's $10,000 in life savings. Mike — a former Detroit Tigers minor-league shortstop — wanted to call it 'Pizza Treat'; Marian talked him into 'Little Caesars,' her own nickname for her husband.
6946406b-add8-4d64-8c86-daedd4136371	Cashew	Raw cashew shells contain urushiol — the same skin-blistering toxin found in poison ivy — which is why cashews are never sold in the shell like most other nuts; every one you've ever eaten was steamed or roasted first to neutralize it.
69b9fc53-c347-480d-a9b5-1ff167d573e5	LARRY PAGE	Google co-founder born in East Lansing; father Carl Page was an MSU computer science professor. Earned his undergrad engineering degree at Michigan before Stanford.
6a439bd1-559b-4c9f-b71c-691de4eb9dbc	Jethro Tull	At the first-ever hard rock/metal Grammy (Feb 22, 1989), the flute-fronted prog band beat favorite Metallica — the room laughed thinking it was a joke, Entertainment Weekly later called it the biggest upset in Grammy history, and the backlash forced NARAS to split hard rock and metal into separate categories in 1990. Tull's label Chrysalis ran a Billboard ad: "The flute is a heavy, metal instrument."
6b029bf0-52e7-4f64-9759-f4b1b3c45781	TRANS-SIBERIAN RAILWAY	At ~9,289 km, the Moscow-to-Vladivostok line is the longest railway in the world, historically crossing a record eight time zones.
6d8dd55b-477c-45aa-8a63-3d0fcf0c92a6	LINCOLN LOGS	Invented ~1916-1918 by John Lloyd Wright, son of architect Frank Lloyd Wright, patented 1920 ("Toy-Cabin Construction," US Patent 1,351,086).
6df67f7c-71a1-488c-8a4c-d3b936983257	Mark Moseley	In the strike-shortened 1982 season, Washington kicker Mark Moseley made 20 of 21 field goals and was named NFL MVP — the only placekicker ever to win the award. He's one of just a handful of non-quarterbacks to take it home in the award's 65-plus-year history.
6e8aef59-4e26-430d-93d0-efd3c9756ab3	Dirty Dancing	Made for about $6 million after being rejected by studios dozens of times, "Dirty Dancing" became the first film ever to sell over a million home-video copies — 1.2 million in the first 90 days after its March 1988 VHS release.
6e9b54cf-1c6e-4469-9d21-fa666c404bbc	The Michigan Triangle	A stretch of Lake Michigan between Ludington, Manitowoc, and Benton Harbor has picked up its own "Bermuda Triangle"-style reputation after Northwest Orient Airlines Flight 2501 vanished there on June 23, 1950, killing all 58 aboard in what was then the deadliest commercial airline crash in US history. Debris and body fragments washed up — but the plane itself has never been found, despite searches continuing into the 2020s.
6ef4b323-12b5-4557-898a-790a839afc03	GRETA GARBO	MI5's top WW2 double agent, Spaniard Juan Pujol García, was so convincing feeding the Nazis fake intelligence (500+ fabricated reports, helping convince Hitler D-Day was aimed at Calais not Normandy) his British handlers codenamed him after Garbo — "the best actor in the world." Decorated by both sides: an Iron Cross from Germany and an MBE from Britain, both 1944.
71e0c544-42d8-44c4-9706-0a669d07a88c	Chortle	"Chortle" isn't an old word — Lewis Carroll invented it in 1871 for "Through the Looking-Glass," blending "chuckle" and "snort."
725af991-8196-4525-8f7b-ef70dd458c38	Gibraltar	Gibraltar — the British Rock at the mouth of the Mediterranean — shares a land border with Spain that's just 0.75 miles (1.2 km) long, the entire boundary of the territory.
72a6156b-2bce-4e97-9cbe-71650db762d1	Bing Crosby	The only complete recording of Game 7 of the 1960 World Series — Bill Mazeroski's walk-off — exists because Bing Crosby, part-owner of the Pirates, was too superstitious to watch live. He listened by shortwave radio in Paris while a kinescope was recorded by Ampex (a company he'd invested in), watched it once, and left it in his wine cellar, where it sat untouched for 49 years until a marketing VP found the five-reel set in December 2009. Networks of the era taped over sports broadcasts; games 1–6 are lost.
72ac4962-2e27-431c-a47e-c7dd8d42e75e	Alice Cooper	In 1973, Salvador Dali — a fan who'd caught Alice Cooper live — invited him to sit for a hologram titled "First Cylindric Chromo-Hologram Portrait of Alice Cooper's Brain." Cooper posed in a million dollars' worth of Harry Winston diamonds, cradling a Venus de Milo statuette, while behind him a plaster brain topped with a chocolate eclair crawled with live ants. The piece still rotates on display at the Dali museums in Figueres, Spain, and St. Petersburg, Florida.
72ea3dbd-435a-4b15-bd90-bafc3455b769	HOT WHEELS	Mattel's Elliot Handler created Hot Wheels in 1968 after his son wanted souped-up hot-rod fantasy cars instead of realistic Matchbox cars. A specially lubricated thin axle let them outrun Matchbox.
72fab1e0-c3a3-4425-aa01-f4766bfd9386	Bikini Atoll	This Marshall Islands coral reef was the site of dozens of US nuclear weapons tests starting in 1946 — the same week French designer Louis Réard unveiled his daring new two-piece swimsuit in Paris. He deliberately named it "the bikini," betting the reaction to it would be as explosive as the bomb tests making headlines.
7388028f-454a-4ef9-9083-61910f7f67a7	a coconut	After a Japanese destroyer rammed and sank PT-109 in August 1943, Lt. John F. Kennedy carved a rescue message into a coconut husk — "NAURO ISL... 11 ALIVE... NEED SMALL BOAT... KENNEDY" — and handed it to two Solomon Islanders to paddle to the nearest PT base. His father later had the husk encased in wood and plastic, and it sat on JFK's Oval Office desk as a paperweight for his entire presidency — it was on the desk the day he died. It's now at the JFK Library.
73acdd3d-4839-493c-8077-621e1756eec4	Jamal Crawford	Jamal Crawford, a three-time NBA Sixth Man of the Year, played 1,327 career games without ever fouling out — the longest streak in league history. Wilt Chamberlain is the closest competitor, going his entire 1,045-game career without six fouls, but Crawford played 282 more games than that without it ever happening.
73b3cf5b-639c-4b5d-a82a-6875752a623d	Amway	Amway was founded in 1959 in Ada, Michigan, by Jay Van Andel and Rich DeVos, selling a single all-purpose cleaner out of their homes. DeVos went on to buy the NBA's Orlando Magic in 1991, and the DeVos family still owns the team.
748527aa-717b-44a9-84f3-115b92a1b619	Maus	Art Spiegelman's Maus is the only graphic novel ever to win a Pulitzer Prize — a Special Award in 1992, created specifically because the book didn't fit any existing category. It tells his father's true story of surviving Auschwitz and Dachau, drawn with Jews as mice and Nazis as cats.
74e1536a-c2a1-491c-abc9-47f4bd6fa597	American Pie (the movie)	American Pie (1999) is set in Michigan — the fictional "East Great Falls" is a thin mask for East Grand Rapids: writer Adam Herz based the script on his own years at East Grand Rapids High School, and the film's working title was literally "East Grand Rapids." The script sold for a reported $650,000.
75adb024-e21a-4b85-81ad-afc82e3c91ac	Dord	"Dord" is a fake word that lived in Webster's New International Dictionary (2nd edition) for five years. In 1931, an editor submitted a card reading "D or d, cont./density" meaning the letters D or d can abbreviate "density" — a typesetter misread the spaced-out "D or d" as one solid word, "dord," and it got defined and printed as a synonym for density. Nobody caught it until 1939, and the correction wasn't published until 1947.
75eafd53-1f95-4e5e-97ca-ae72c4223f96	March Madness	The NCAA didn't coin "March Madness" — Illinois high school sports official Henry V. Porter did, in a 1939 essay describing the state's high school basketball tournament. The NCAA only got tangled up in the phrase after a 1996 trademark lawsuit from the Illinois High School Association, ending with a joint trademark entity; the NCAA didn't gain full ownership until 2012.
7600a49d-0e47-45a7-8615-f5a822e68dea	Talking Heads	Talking Heads got their name from a TV Guide glossary of broadcast jargon — "talking head" was industry term for a static head-and-shoulders shot of someone speaking on camera.
763e8507-7d66-491a-83a6-7e0cd13f6586	The Exorcist	Director William Friedkin had a $50,000 refrigeration system installed to cool the bedroom set to -20°F so actors' breath would show onscreen — it was so cold they could only shoot 3 minutes at a time before it had to re-chill.
77541e3a-a89d-4455-a9d7-7e8ee651798b	M\*A\*S\*H	The Korean War sitcom never filmed in Korea — every exterior, including the famous helicopter-flyover opening, was shot at the old 20th Century Fox Ranch (now Malibu Creek State Park), California, 1972–1983.
77565d67-6e52-4b15-a953-61e182949d6b	Westworld	Before Jurassic Park, novelist/director Michael Crichton pioneered a different kind of on-screen monster tech: his 1973 film Westworld is credited as the first feature film to use computer-generated imagery — a blocky, pixelated ~2-minute sequence showing the point of view of the malfunctioning "Gunslinger" android, visually inspired by real NASA Mariner Mars flyby photos.
778907d9-596b-40b6-9e86-2ae77233644c	Norm (Norm Peterson, Cheers)	Norm's real first name is Hilary. Revealed in Cheers S9E21 "It's a Wonderful Wife" (March 1991) — Vera, working as the Melville's hatcheck girl, blurts "Norm's real first name is Hilary!" Norm claims grandfather Hilary "once killed a man who laughed at him"… then admits: "Not exactly. He was a surgeon. He sort of botched an operation."
77bb15af-f99a-429a-9e30-130c97bf86b3	Chucky	Child's Play creator Don Mancini assembled Chucky's human name — Charles Lee Ray — from three real killers: Charles Manson, Lee Harvey Oswald, and James Earl Ray. The doll's "Good Guy" persona has carried the stitched-together name since the 1988 original.
78f065da-e080-4c97-b6d6-e315830f0e7e	Stevie Wonder	His 1963 chart-topper "Fingertips (Pt. 2)" — cut live at Chicago's Regal Theater during a Motortown Revue — was the first live recording ever to hit #1 on the Hot 100 (and the first single to top the pop and R&B charts simultaneously). The record preserves pure chaos: Wonder faked an ending, the next act's bassist Joe Swift had already taken the stage, and you can hear him yell "What key? What key?" when the encore starts. The drummer on the track: a pre-fame Marvin Gaye.
7a3b2f8e-b8dd-4dd9-820c-eac5914a5904	HARRY HOUDINI	Died in Detroit on Halloween — Oct. 31, 1926 — at Grace Hospital, of peritonitis from a ruptured appendix, days after a college student sucker-punched him in the stomach in Montreal.
7a9c315e-0d5a-484e-a12d-90aa3a18a225	Kellogg's Corn Flakes	MYTH (rated "mostly false" by Snopes): the popular claim that Kellogg's Corn Flakes were invented specifically to stop masturbation. John Harvey Kellogg did preach bland diets to curb sexual desire, and Corn Flakes grew out of his Battle Creek Sanitarium's health philosophy — but he never marketed Corn Flakes for that purpose, and the exact "anti-masturbatory breakfast" phrasing traces to a 2012 Mental Floss article, not Kellogg himself.
7ad305fc-cf84-4c2d-8816-8dbd7a006cf4	Alien	The original 1979 Alien costume head contains a REAL human skull — H.R. Giger bought human skulls (sourced from India for medical use), riveted one onto the front of the creature's head as its "face," sawed off the jawbone and extended it about six inches, then hid it under the smooth translucent dome. Co-writer Dan O'Bannon confirmed it in Fantastic Films: "The face of the thing is a real human skull."
7b3ad022-213a-439c-8ef6-eb6feb5b1ec7	The Stanley Cup	There is no annual replica of the Stanley Cup — teams pass the same trophy along — and it has led a rough life. In 1924 the champion Montreal Canadiens got a flat tire, pulled the Cup out of the trunk to reach the spare, drove off, and left hockey's holiest object sitting in a roadside snowbank until they doubled back for it.
7b615487-2ea7-48b7-8d8d-a5a80432af8f	Operation Mincemeat	In 1943, British intelligence dressed the corpse of a homeless Welshman as fictional "Major William Martin," planted fake invasion documents on him, and released him from a submarine off Spain — tricking Germany into shifting reinforcements away from the real target, Sicily.
7bade62d-2cd8-4623-9e82-b242f060cc1d	Disaster	"Disaster" comes from Italian "disastro" — literally "ill-starred," from dis- (bad) + astro (star) — reflecting the old astrological belief that calamity came from an unfavorable star. Entered English in the 1590s.
7bb27c2f-9a9a-41bd-aaf8-172150985bd6	ROSA PARKS	After the Montgomery bus boycott, moved to Detroit in 1957 and lived there the rest of her life, working decades as an aide in Congressman John Conyers's Detroit office (1965-1988).
7bbf4d26-84e7-44a5-a1ef-46d483406e8d	Sterling Holloway	The man who voiced Winnie the Pooh for nearly 40 years also voiced the Cheshire Cat in Alice in Wonderland, Kaa in The Jungle Book, and Roquefort in The Aristocats.
7c96c021-70c5-4c43-beb5-9b82883f0318	Tennis for Two	Widely considered the first video game ever built purely for entertainment, 'Tennis for Two' was created in 1958 by physicist William Higinbotham at Brookhaven National Laboratory — a nuclear research lab — using an analog computer and a 5-inch oscilloscope screen. He built it in a few hours to give visitors something fun to do on the lab's annual public day.
7dbf9721-5b41-4049-bacf-5e7247e0b676	Michelin	The Michelin Guide was invented by the tire company as a free motoring handbook in 1900 — restaurant stars didn't appear until 1926. The whole scheme existed to make people drive more and wear out tires faster. It went from free to paid in 1920 after André Michelin found copies propping up a workbench in a tire shop.
7efa5a4b-7e84-47c8-a644-68180f128be8	Danny Biasone (the 24-second NBA shot clock)	The NBA's 24-second shot clock came from a bowling-alley owner's back-of-the-napkin math: Danny Biasone took the 48 minutes in a game, converted to 2,880 seconds, divided by the 120 shots he figured both teams should combine to take, and got 24. The league adopted it in 1954 and scoring jumped almost overnight.
7f805238-aeb1-48ae-9f8b-0af8a11cfc67	SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE	Didn't launch under its own name — debuted Oct. 11, 1975 as "NBC's Saturday Night," because ABC already owned the "Saturday Night Live" trademark for a rival Howard Cosell variety show.
7fe5ee69-e745-40fe-bd7e-717c53e394c1	MARY POPPINS	Author P.L. Travers was so furious about Disney's film — especially mixing live actors with cartoon penguins — that at the 1964 premiere she confronted Walt Disney demanding the animated sequence be cut. He brushed her off ("Pamela, the ship has sailed") and walked away.
8042cf4f-9f43-46a5-8a8f-a1d6adec52ef	Elvis Presley	On December 21, 1970, Elvis Presley showed up unannounced at the White House with a six-page handwritten letter asking President Nixon to make him a federal "Agent-at-Large" in the fight against drugs. Nixon met with him and granted him an honorary narcotics badge. The photo from that meeting is now the single most requested image in the history of the U.S. National Archives — outranking requests for the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.
80819c31-5445-49c0-b44b-082d7e93ed4b	Low Rider	The song's stuttering rhythm exists because drummer Harold Brown flubbed a take, playing the upbeat instead of the downbeat - rather than redo it, the band kept going, and sax player Charles Miller ad-libbed the "Low rider" line over it.
812ab98f-6bf0-4485-9c73-f8eb1973668a	Tommy Tutone ("867-5309/Jenny")	When Tommy Tutone released "867-5309/Jenny" in 1981, real households and businesses holding that exact number in dozens of area codes got flooded with calls for decades. An Alabama woman had to change her number in 1982 after 2 a.m. calls; a New Jersey DJ who later owned the digits estimated he got roughly 10,000 calls a year asking for Jenny. Two rival plumbing companies eventually fought publicly over commercial rights to advertise using 867-5309.
813d2a68-62e3-4724-92b3-b52ce1140119	Chupacabra	A five-year investigation by Benjamin Radford (book: "Tracking the Chupacabra," 2011) traced the entire legend to one 1995 Puerto Rico eyewitness, Madelyne Tolentino — whose creature description (spikes down the back, alien eyes, two-legged gait) matches Sil, the monster from the sci-fi film "Species," which she admitted seeing in the weeks before her sighting. The world's youngest famous cryptid is, in effect, a movie review.
81d441af-d3e2-47ff-b135-70aed4b1a8f1	SONIC THE HEDGEHOG	Sega's Naoto Ohshima fused Felix the Cat's head onto Mickey Mouse's body, field-testing sketches on strangers in Central Park. Shoes pulled from Michael Jackson's *Bad*-album boots and Santa's color scheme.
81d5d0bc-f0b2-4b17-b6df-47a1762c51c4	Weezer	Rivers Cuomo's dad nicknamed him "Weezer" as a kid — after Wheezer, a character from the 1920s-30s "Our Gang"/Little Rascals comedy shorts his father thought was "the cool one." Cuomo grabbed the childhood nickname (dropping the H) under time pressure, naming the band right before their first-ever gig: opening for Dogstar — Keanu Reeves's real rock band.
81e0ce06-9263-4989-8c64-953d3ee7df90	TABASCO	Tabasco mash ages up to three years in white oak barrels on Avery Island, Louisiana — barrels previously used to age whiskey, decharred and cleaned before reuse.
81e8932e-e9a5-46b7-b8a2-d13fc29cbcbf	HENRY FORD	January 1914, Ford announced the "Five Dollar Day" — more than doubling the standard wage for Detroit-area workers, a year after rolling out the moving assembly line.
81fe1deb-53a3-44f8-a883-3b4b578ef515	Panic! at the Disco	Nearly everyone assumes the name (and exclamation point) comes from The Smiths' 1986 song "Panic," whose chorus commands "burn down the disco" — a perfect match. But per the band's own account, the real source was an obscure late-90s Orange County band called Name Taken, whose song "Panic" the teenage founders were actually into.
82cc33cd-ba1f-4531-9a47-fc58ffe41a9f	ROUTE 66	Ran 2,448 miles Chicago to Santa Monica; nicknamed "the Mother Road" by John Steinbeck in *The Grapes of Wrath* (1939).
8322c4e7-6f18-4876-9b8c-ef7bbabf746c	Uno	Uno was invented in 1971 by Reading, Ohio barber Merle Robbins to settle a family argument over the rules of Crazy Eights. He and his family mortgaged their house to print the first 5,000 decks, sold them out of his barbershop, then sold the rights a year later for just $50,000 plus a dime-a-deck royalty.
83327653-f3c6-4627-9be7-fd64f187994e	MOUNT EVEREST	Named after Sir George Everest, British Surveyor General of India, who reportedly never saw it and objected to the honor, telling the Royal Geographical Society in 1857 that "Everest" couldn't be written in Hindi or pronounced by Indians.
833fd914-d2f3-4153-a7bc-1adb3a899245	The Rose Bowl	The first one (January 1, 1902) was Michigan 49, Stanford 0 — Stanford's captain asked to quit with 8 minutes still on the clock. The blowout was so bad the Tournament of Roses dropped football entirely for 13 years, running Ben-Hur-style chariot races and ostrich races instead, until football returned for good in 1916.
83c73195-78a1-4f35-92a0-d29a4a6b291e	RASPUTIN	The famous legend of Rasputin's 1916 death (cyanide cakes, multiple gunshots, beaten, drowned alive) comes almost entirely from killer Prince Yusupov's own memoirs — the real autopsy found no poison, no water in his lungs; a single close-range gunshot killed him, Dec. 30, 1916.
8406532d-3b44-4d0f-98ed-6d90efc90c04	BERMUDA TRIANGLE	The USS Cyclops vanished there in 1918 with 306 crew — still the largest single loss of life in US Navy history outside combat — and in 1945 five Navy TBM Avenger bombers (Flight 19) disappeared on a routine training flight from Fort Lauderdale.
84f70cf4-ee93-4f71-ac2b-07f937929b10	Steppenwolf	The "Born to Be Wild" band is named after Hermann Hesse's 1927 novel Steppenwolf, on their producer Gabriel Mekler's suggestion after he'd read the book.
85394827-0f10-497a-a6d2-1571b30f7262	Pokémon	Episode 38 of Pokémon aired exactly once — December 16, 1997 — and sent 685 Japanese viewers to hospitals by ambulance with photosensitive seizures ("Pokémon Shock"). The show went on a four-month hiatus, Japan wrote new broadcast standards, and the episode has never aired again anywhere. The kicker: the seizure-triggering explosion was caused by Pikachu's Thunderbolt, but the episode was titled for Porygon — who took the fall and effectively never appeared in the anime again.
87b42e78-1008-4365-9af1-2a99000d05fa	Maleficent	The disembodied head chanting inside the Haunted Mansion's crystal ball speaks with the voice of Maleficent — Disney brought Eleanor Audley, who voiced the Sleeping Beauty villain (1959), out to Disneyland to record Madame Leota's séance incantations for the 1969 attraction.
87c112e8-85d8-4821-b2b9-208ed2026ed0	Sriracha / Huy Fong Foods (David Tran)	The rooster on the Sriracha bottle isn't a random mascot — it's founder David Tran's Chinese zodiac sign. Tran, a Vietnamese refugee, named his company Huy Fong Foods after the cargo freighter that carried him out of Vietnam in 1979; he started selling the hot sauce out of Los Angeles's Chinatown the following year.
87f3bca7-3751-426b-9a10-6149f36ba112	Silly Putty	Silly Putty was a WWII rubber shortage that failed upward. In 1943, General Electric engineer James Wright was trying to synthesize a substitute for military rubber (Japan controlled the world's natural rubber supply) when he mixed boric acid into silicone oil and got a bouncy, stretchy dud that was useless as rubber. It sat around as a novelty until a 1950 New Yorker mention triggered 250,000 orders in three days — and in 1968, Apollo 8 astronauts carried a wad of it to lunar orbit in a silver egg, using it to keep tools from floating away in zero gravity.
882246d1-b08d-4347-b38b-4b04a3cceff1	DIEGO RIVERA (Detroit Industry Murals)	Rivera spent 1932-33 painting 27 fresco panels at the Detroit Institute of Arts depicting Ford's River Rouge plant, commissioned with $20,000 from Edsel Ford, who later personally defended the murals when denounced as un-American. Rivera called it his most successful work.
884e103c-43b2-4e8f-85ab-8e7567297590	NERF	The Nerf ball launched in 1970 as "the world's first official indoor ball" — the name comes from "nerf bars," protective off-road-racing tubing.
88924456-3c51-4139-bb8a-9fe209989b01	HOW THE GRINCH STOLE CHRISTMAS! (1966)	"You're a Mean One, Mr. Grinch" was NOT sung by Boris Karloff (narrator/Grinch voice) — it was bass singer Thurl Ravenscroft, whose name was accidentally left off the original credits.
88cf8d68-bf99-43a0-9b2c-e3568fd8eeac	WD-40	The name is literally the lab notebook entry: "Water Displacement, 40th attempt" — chemist Norm Larsen's Rocket Chemical Company got the anti-rust formula right on try #40 in 1953, built to keep rust off Atlas missile skins for aerospace contractor Convair.
8922d88c-eb8c-40d5-8821-dbce545d61ad	Mr. Brightside (The Killers)	The song has no second verse — Brandon Flowers just sings the first verse twice. He admitted "I didn't have any other lines, and it ended up sticking" (Rolling Stone, 2018); the accidental loop now reads as the point, a jealous brain replaying the same scene. That song went on to become the longest-charting single in UK chart history — 508 weeks in the Top 100 as of June 2026 — without ever reaching No. 1.
896786f6-6570-40e7-ad95-26e6cf231fb4	Agatha Christie	Guinness World Records names Agatha Christie the best-selling fiction author of all time, with an estimated 2 billion copies of her 78 crime novels sold across 44 languages — outsold historically only by the Bible and Shakespeare.
898c3b75-a2a1-454f-88bb-18f3f2f8fd39	Twinkie	The Twinkie exists because of idle machinery. In 1930, Chicago-area bakery manager James Dewar noticed the equipment used to inject cream into strawberry shortcakes sat unused outside berry season, so he adapted it to pipe banana cream into a small sponge cake instead. Wartime banana rationing later forced a permanent switch to vanilla.
89f4772f-8d04-4649-b591-36a7527c85af	Deadline	Before meaning a newsroom's final-copy time (by 1919), "dead line" was a literal Civil War prison-camp term — a boundary drawn 15–20 feet inside a stockade wall that guards shot any prisoner for crossing.
8ae5f3d0-2d33-412a-975f-b04dc0c12de9	MARATHON	The 26.2-mile marathon distance wasn't set by the ancient Greeks — fixed at the 1908 London Olympics when organizers extended the planned 26-mile route to start on the Windsor Castle lawn (Queen Alexandra's request, so the royal children could watch) and finish before the royal box, adding 385 extra yards.
8b2474b7-e4df-43e1-a4d1-886e198161ad	Mountain Dew	Mountain Dew's name is a wink at moonshine — 'mountain dew' was 19th-century Appalachian slang for illegal corn whiskey. Tennessee bottlers the Hartman brothers created the lemon-lime soda in the 1940s specifically as a whiskey mixer, and early labels featured a barefoot hillbilly toting a rifle and a jug.
8b7da908-a2b8-438b-b922-2f2a6896f8ad	Apollo 13 (the 1995 film)	Ron Howard shot the weightless scenes for real — NASA let the production film aboard its KC-135 "Vomit Comet" reduced-gravity trainer, flying 612 parabolic arcs over 13 days of flights to bank just under four hours of true zero-g footage, captured in bursts of roughly 20-23 seconds per dive. A cramped Apollo capsule set was built inside the aircraft's fuselage.
8b92dfcf-0b12-4f5b-ad26-59f7703393f1	"TAINTED LOVE" (Soft Cell)	Not written for Soft Cell — a 1964 Northern Soul B-side by American singer Gloria Jones. Soft Cell's 1981 cover set a then-record 43 consecutive weeks on the Billboard Hot 100 and was the UK's best-selling single of 1981.
8c0b9a42-fbc1-47f0-9171-774d2fd1d96f	The Empire Strikes Back	A graphic artist named Lee Seiler sued Lucasfilm claiming George Lucas stole his "Garthian Striders" designs for the AT-AT Imperial Walkers. He lost badly - he couldn't produce any originals predating the film's 1980 release, and the Ninth Circuit found he'd testified falsely and destroyed evidence trying to fake a paper trail.
8cbde71f-21fe-47d5-ade0-a7d782c45af5	Bell's Two Hearted Ale	Bell's Brewery's flagship IPA is named for Michigan's real Two Hearted River in the Upper Peninsula — the same river Ernest Hemingway made famous in his 1925 short story "Big Two-Hearted River." Except Hemingway wasn't actually writing about it: literary historians agree he was describing the Fox River near Seney, but borrowed the more evocative "Two Hearted" name for his title anyway.
8dab155f-b70b-468d-8d16-f8896c09d6eb	The Brazil Nut Effect	Shake a can of mixed nuts and the big Brazil nuts always end up on top — real, studied physics called granular convection, where vibration makes larger particles rise through smaller ones even though gravity should do the opposite.
8ef44d6c-bc0c-442f-8df1-597f2489cdcc	Buick	Before building cars, Scotsman David Dunbar Buick made his fortune in Detroit inventing a process for permanently bonding porcelain enamel to cast iron — the method still used to make white bathtubs today. He sold the plumbing business and sank the money into gasoline engines, incorporating Buick Motor Company in 1903.
8fcf380e-d0f4-4c46-8689-0715981aa612	Nolan Ryan	On July 15, 1973 at Tiger Stadium, with two outs in the bottom of the ninth of Nolan Ryan's second no-hitter (17 strikeouts), Tigers first baseman Norm Cash walked to the plate carrying a table leg from the clubhouse instead of a bat. Umpire Ron Luciano made him swap it; Cash protested "I've got as much chance with this as I do with a bat," made the final out, and told Luciano "See, I told ya."
901696c9-d105-42c4-a507-b3984e3a7fd2	PHILLIE PHANATIC	Debuted April 25, 1978 at Veterans Stadium, designed by Bonnie Erickson and husband Wayde Harrison.
90e1af53-3a9e-4888-bce9-7009267adf9b	Jelly Belly	Jelly Belly didn't have a blue jelly bean until 1980 — invented specifically to complete a red-white-and-blue lineup for Ronald Reagan's 1981 inauguration. Roughly 3.5 tons of Jelly Bellys shipped to DC for the festivities, and a jar sat on Reagan's desk throughout his presidency.
90ee29ab-d35c-4992-a649-de7528d0ded7	Alice Cooper	Shock-rock pioneer Alice Cooper (born Vincent Furnier) was born in Detroit, Michigan in 1948.
9197f03a-550b-496e-8f2c-ff84ff1ac2c8	CLUE	The 1985 movie *Clue* released with three different endings — each theater randomly got a print with only ONE, so audiences believed they'd seen the real conclusion. Home video was the first place all three played back to back.
91c1a8a7-252a-4e3e-b3f2-e7863b20f385	Garth Brooks	In 1999, at the peak of his country stardom, Garth Brooks invented a fictional alternative-rock persona named Chris Gaines — mullet, soul patch, and an invented backstory as an Australian rock star — to headline a movie ("The Lamb") that was never actually made. He released a full "greatest hits" album under the Gaines identity as a pre-release soundtrack for the nonexistent film.
91ccd347-e3ff-457d-a122-21b94c9db6dc	France and Spain	A tiny, uninhabited river island called Pheasant Island — the world's smallest condominium — is jointly governed by France and Spain, switching sovereignty every six months: Spain administers it Feb-Jul, France Aug-Jan, an arrangement running continuously since the 1659 Treaty of the Pyrenees.
91ed790b-d67c-498e-b78f-7e9b46bd0e1d	eBay	eBay's famous founding myth says Pierre Omidyar built the site in 1995 to help his fiancee trade Pez dispensers. Fabricated by an early eBay spokesperson because "nobody wants to hear about a 30-year-old genius who wanted to create a perfect market" - the real first item ever sold was a broken laser pointer, for $14.83.
9273597d-54f0-4245-b404-47e330b53452	THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION	Cost ~$25M, made only ~$29M worldwide on initial release — a flop, largely blamed on its forgettable title. Now IMDb's #1 rated film of all time (9.3/10, 3M+ voters).
92832223-a090-4fe6-aa39-e0b3cd8acf2e	Sixpence None the Richer	The one-hit wonder behind 1999's "Kiss Me" named itself after a line in C.S. Lewis's "Mere Christianity," his illustration of a child buying his father a gift with the father's own money, leaving the father no richer, but pleased all the same.
92d721e7-f3ba-4c24-ae68-f2262956c2c9	Popsicle	The Popsicle was invented by accident by an 11-year-old. In 1905 Frank Epperson left a cup of powdered-soda water — with the stirring stick still in it — outside on a cold San Francisco Bay Area night. It froze solid. He did not patent his 'Epsicle' until 1923.
9315fb32-e55b-487a-a883-adf63ac948f7	Cotton candy	Cotton candy was co-invented by a dentist. Nashville dentist William Morrison and confectioner John Wharton built the first electric spun-sugar machine in 1897 and sold it as 'Fairy Floss' at the 1904 World's Fair, moving over 68,000 boxes. The name 'cotton candy' came later — from yet another dentist.
94491d02-00ec-4a9f-8bf5-5041bd328f80	WYATT EARP	The 1881 gunfight at the O.K. Corral that made him a legend lasted about 30 seconds.
94d57aa7-4da2-40e2-8d4a-6820f6608fb3	Alan Turing	British mathematician Alan Turing led the Bletchley Park team that built the Bombe machine to crack Germany's Enigma cipher in WW2. Despite this, he was prosecuted for "gross indecency" in 1952 for a same-sex relationship, sentenced to chemical castration, and died in 1954 (ruled suicide). He received a posthumous royal pardon from Queen Elizabeth II in 2013.
94d8f266-d1f1-4b5d-a1bb-97404b61f936	Nepal	Nepal's national flag is the only non-quadrilateral flag of any country on Earth — two stacked triangular pennants, with precise mathematical proportions written into the Nepali constitution since 1962.
94e29d6b-6c52-40fd-a35e-b1561c3869b6	Tickle Me Elmo	The 1996 holiday shortage of Tickle Me Elmo triggered real store violence — a Walmart employee in Canada suffered a broken rib, concussion, and pulled hamstring after being trampled by shoppers rushing the last units.
94efb684-960a-4073-93ed-0b3b08801fb9	RUBBER DUCK	January 10, 1992, a North Pacific storm washed 28,800 plastic bath toys off a cargo ship. Oceanographers tracked their scattering for over a decade to map global ocean currents; some hit Alaska within a year, bleached survivors still washing up in the UK by 2007.
94f081ae-9509-413b-b3dd-3a1712a6aaba	8 MILE (Eminem)	Named for a real Detroit road (8 Mile Road/M-102) that for decades was the informal racial dividing line between majority-Black Detroit and the largely white suburbs to the north — the exact fault line the semi-autobiographical film uses to frame Eminem's outsider status.
95077a41-3104-4a38-92c3-17a57f967973	Mrs. Doubtfire	Robin Williams's Mrs. Doubtfire makeup took roughly four hours to apply every single day — the latex pieces (nose, lips, eye bags, forehead) had to be recast from scratch each morning — and it won the Oscar for Best Makeup at the 1994 Academy Awards.
95c7812e-3733-46be-8281-648c29c7c734	MY CHEMICAL ROMANCE	Bassist Mikey Way named the band while working at a Barnes & Noble — spotted Irvine Welsh's novel *Ecstasy: Three Tales of Chemical Romance* on the shelf.
9666950f-5bb6-485e-a7ff-4866fd467002	PANCHO VILLA	His March 1916 raid on Columbus, New Mexico was one of the rare times a foreign military force directly attacked the continental US mainland.
970608ee-f54f-4c2c-b3c6-55fd8c9d4f1e	Devo	Devo's "de-evolution" concept traces directly to the May 4, 1970 Kent State shootings. Co-founder Gerry Casale was a Kent State student who witnessed the shooting and was friends with two of the four students killed, turning his half-joking college theory into the band's serious mission.
97192f17-51d2-4d11-a523-43bde70ceabf	MARIANO RIVERA	"Enter Sandman" wasn't his idea — a Yankee Stadium scoreboard staffer picked it in 1999 after seeing how hard Padres fans reacted to Trevor Hoffman's AC/DC entrance in the '98 World Series. Rivera also was the last active MLB player allowed to wear No. 42, grandfathered when MLB retired it league-wide in 1997, until his 2013 retirement.
98370ead-7280-4605-8bc4-02f56e6d07c7	PAC-MAN	Designer Toru Iwatani based the shape on the Japanese kanji for "mouth"; original Japanese title was "Puck Man," renamed for the US to stop vandals scratching the "P" into an "F" on cabinets.
983e4e2a-926c-4915-a3df-3f2a2a53b2b0	TUTANKHAMUN (KING TUT)	Howard Carter found the nearly intact tomb in 1922, bankrolled by the 5th Earl of Carnarvon.
985089ba-465c-4b11-922a-4ec45e696199	PURDUE BOILERMAKERS	Nickname isn't from the beer-and-shot cocktail — dates to an 1891 newspaper headline mocking Purdue's football team as "burly boiler makers" after a 44-0 win, tied to the school's industrial/railroad-shop training.
9918f172-4aca-476c-bfda-69a00c53eea4	The Rolling Stones	Mick Jagger commissioned the Rolling Stones' tongue-and-lips logo in 1970 after showing designer John Pasche a magazine image of the Hindu goddess Kali, whose defiant, tongue-out depiction inspired the design. Pasche was paid just 50 pounds up front (plus 200 pounds later) for what became one of the most recognizable logos in music history. He eventually sold his copyright to the band's commercial arm for 26,000 pounds in 1984.
9a44436f-ebfe-47a1-8da4-de554feedbf1	Sea otters	Sea otters sleep floating on their backs in groups called "rafts," often wrapping themselves in kelp and holding paws with a neighbor so they don't drift apart while asleep.
9a4596ba-796f-418d-bb17-6065584d5534	BANANA	Bananas are mildly radioactive from potassium-40 — a medium banana undergoes ~15 radioactive decays per second. Nuclear scientists informally use the "Banana Equivalent Dose" (1995, Gary Mansfield, Lawrence Livermore Lab), ~0.1 microsieverts per banana, as a plain-English radiation yardstick.
9a58bcd1-0354-4c20-9bbe-fb7885a57614	Hootie & the Blowfish	Nobody in Hootie & the Blowfish is named Hootie. Frontman Darius Rucker coined the name in 1986 by mashing together the nicknames of two college choir friends, "Hootie" for one with owl-like glasses and "Blowfish" for another with puffy cheeks.
9b4ade64-d0c5-4309-85a9-a638be2a7ad6	Skee-Ball	The original 1908 Skee-Ball alleys were 32 feet long — nearly three times today's standard 10-foot boardwalk version — with the ramp built into the middle of the lane rather than at the end, so it took real arm strength to even reach the target. Alleys were shortened after the 1929 stock market crash so operators could fit more machines into smaller spaces.
9ba39102-0663-4b19-b956-4304cd067308	Coco Chanel	In 1941 the Nazi Abwehr registered Coco Chanel as Agent F-7124, codename "Westminster." Her real mission: fly to Madrid to try to broker a secret separate peace, aimed at reaching her old friend Winston Churchill, on behalf of spy chief Wilhelm Canaris working without Hitler's knowledge.
9be57f53-1967-4ff3-9451-325944b1ff1b	Star Wars (Darth Vader)	James Earl Jones recorded all of Darth Vader's dialogue for the original 1977 Star Wars in about two and a half hours, for a fee of $7,000, and asked to go uncredited — his name didn't appear on a Star Wars film until Return of the Jedi in 1983. The man in the suit, David Prowse, never spoke a line on camera; before acting he was crowned British Heavyweight Weightlifting Champion in 1962 and held the title three years running.
9c24e7c5-40e4-4940-baae-61a9de8a1738	Sleeping Bear Dunes	In 2011, "Good Morning America" crowned this stretch of Lake Michigan dunes the "Most Beautiful Place in America," beating Cape Cod, Sedona, and Asheville in a national online vote.
9c2d338e-5c78-4261-b84f-199a7d52ae69	Potato chips	MYTH-BUST: The story that chef George Crum invented the potato chip in a huff in 1853 Saratoga — after a diner sent back his fries as too thick — is almost certainly false. Printed recipes for paper-thin fried potatoes predate him by decades, and his own sister, Catherine Wicks, claimed the credit.
9c5600d8-f9f9-4b61-8a9b-f92b9d3bc78b	SPUTNIK	The USSR's October 4, 1957 launch of Sputnik 1 — the first artificial satellite — triggered what Eisenhower called "a wave of near-hysteria" in the US, directly leading to NASA's creation in 1958 and the Defense Department's ARPA, whose ARPANET (1969) became the technical ancestor of the Internet.
9cd5bd92-3af3-4146-9fcf-c0a751d88cb8	SNICKERS	Introduced by Mars in 1930, named after the Mars family's favorite horse — not the sound of laughing.
9cdb35b8-3864-40fa-8c59-1815f82b322f	CHAUVINISM	The word comes from Nicolas Chauvin, a supposedly real French soldier said to have idolized Napoleon so blindly he kept praising him after Waterloo. No historical record of him actually existing — likely originated as an 1831 Paris stage-comedy joke character ("Je suis français, je suis Chauvin").
9cf585f7-da2e-4143-bdb9-255449dbaf68	JERRY WEST	The NBA logo (dribbling silhouette) was designed by Alan Siegel in 1969, based on a photo of Lakers guard Jerry West — never officially confirmed by the league, deliberately kept ambiguous to stay "institutional."
9d3f3e46-5215-4823-843c-f3f5e81f81fe	The 2026 FIFA World Cup	The 2026 FIFA World Cup, underway now through July 19, is the first men's World Cup ever jointly hosted by three countries — the U.S., Mexico and Canada — and the first with 48 teams instead of 32. Mexico became the first nation to host or co-host the tournament three times, having also done it in 1970 and 1986.
9d8f589d-998e-4742-b21b-7dff86510e58	Meijer Gardens (The American Horse)	A 24-foot bronze horse towers over Frederik Meijer Gardens & Sculpture Park in Grand Rapids — funded by Meijer grocery-chain founder Fred Meijer, unveiled in 1999.
9e43b415-12b7-42cb-ad91-60ded7659b98	Superman ice cream	MYTH-BUST: Michigan's blue-red-yellow Superman ice cream is often said to have been invented by Detroit's Stroh's during Prohibition, when the brewery pivoted to ice cream to survive — but that origin is unconfirmed, and the flavor predates the Superman comic (1938). Nobody can even agree what the Blue Moon component tastes like.
9e609e9a-3237-481b-98d7-dbd3d73d507b	Big League Chew	Big League Chew was invented in a minor-league bullpen. In 1977, Portland Mavericks pitcher Rob Nelson noticed teammates chewing tobacco between innings and wondered about shredding bubble gum into a pouch instead — the first batch was hand-made in 1979, and fellow Maverick (and former Yankee All-Star) Jim Bouton pitched it to the Wrigley Company as a healthier alternative for ballplayers.
9f3e96dc-74c2-47e0-abb7-6fcc29b7dc19	ELECTRIC EEL	Can discharge up to 860 volts — strongest bioelectric shock of any known animal. 1770s studies of its electric organs directly influenced Alessandro Volta, who modeled his 1800 voltaic pile (world's first true battery) on its structure.
9f6afebc-f873-4c65-b81e-f8cda35ca708	Tommy Lee Jones	He was a first-team All-Ivy offensive guard on Harvard's undefeated 1968 team and played every snap of the legendary 29–29 tie against Yale — the game the Harvard Crimson headlined "Harvard Beats Yale 29-29." His college roommate: Al Gore.
9f8cc0b2-214f-44fa-8298-64f724551582	The Laff Box (Charley Douglass)	Nearly every canned sitcom laugh you heard before the 2000s came out of one padlocked, two-foot-tall device called the Laff Box, built by sound engineer Charley Douglass. It held 320 recorded laughs on 32 tape loops, played like an organ with a keyboard and foot pedal, and Douglass guarded its inner workings as a trade secret for decades.
9f8de0eb-b35a-44f6-900d-80cdd1e3b438	Louie Louie	The FBI spent 31 months (1964–66) investigating whether the Kingsmen's "Louie Louie" hid obscene lyrics — agents played it at every speed, built a 455-page file, and concluded they were "unable to interpret any of the wording in the record." They never once talked to Jack Ely, the man who actually sang it. The slurred vocal? Ely shouted the whole thing in one take at a mic suspended near the ceiling, in a session that cost the band about $36–50.
9f9f1bca-7d27-466d-bf3a-16ad26eb73a5	Krusty Krab	The Krusty Krab isn't just a cartoon set — it's the subject of real federal case law. In 2014 a Texas company (IJR Capital Investments) tried to open actual seafood restaurants named "The Krusty Krab." Viacom sued, and in 2018 the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed Viacom's trademark win — ruling that a fictional element from a TV show can acquire real trademark protection through the show's fame, even though "The Krusty Krab" had never been used to sell anything in the real world before.
9fcf992c-110d-496c-99a3-336049a58221	THEREMIN	The touchless instrument was invented 1920 by Russian physicist Leon Theremin. Composer Miklós Rózsa pioneered its use in Hollywood scores, including Hitchcock's *Spellbound* (1945), which won the Oscar for Best Original Score.
a08ee58d-e04b-4e8f-9e88-20de218c5425	a mushroom (honey fungus)	The largest known living organism on Earth is not a whale or a sequoia — it's a honey fungus. An Armillaria ostoyae in Oregon's Malheur National Forest sprawls about 3.4 square miles and may be ~8,000 years old. And the ORIGINAL record-holder, announced in a 1992 Nature paper, lives in Michigan's UP near Crystal Falls — a 2018 re-study with 245 DNA samples found the Michigan fungus is ~2,500 years old and ~440 tons, the mass of roughly three blue whales.
a1448f3d-c7d1-43d1-8334-21b34206371d	TAMAGOTCHI	Bandai's virtual pet launched in Japan Nov. 23, 1996, created by Akihiro Yokoi (WiZ) and Aki Maita (Bandai) — name blends Japanese "tamago" (egg) and "watch."
a2a48dae-0566-4fb4-88dc-d0cf0f2195db	Worcestershire sauce	Worcestershire sauce started as a batch chemists John Lea and William Perrins mixed up in 1837 trying to recreate a recipe brought back from India. It tasted so bad they abandoned the barrel in their Worcester cellar — and rediscovering it roughly 18 months later, found the now-fermented sauce was excellent.
a4ce9a17-8b33-4ea4-aff4-03bc9162bd42	The Adventures of Pete & Pete	The house band playing "Hey Sandy" on the Wrigleys' front lawn in the opening credits — Polaris — never really existed: it was acclaimed New Haven indie band Miracle Legion minus one guitarist, recording under a new name while label legal entanglements kept them from releasing music as themselves. Polaris existed only for the show, then played its first-ever tour roughly 20 years after cancellation, selling out nostalgia crowds in 2015.
a4fb10a1-704a-4b70-9e0d-22cba14223fb	The seventh-inning stretch	MYTH-BUST: The story that President William Howard Taft invented baseball's seventh-inning stretch in 1910 by standing up to stretch his legs — with the crowd rising out of respect, thinking he was leaving — is decades too late. A letter from 1869 already describes Cincinnati Red Stockings fans standing and stretching between halves of the seventh inning, 41 years before Taft ever attended a game.
a5911c71-f1db-4469-b43a-070e12c068f8	Istanbul	Istanbul is the only city on Earth split between two continents — the Bosphorus strait runs through it, ~65% of its 15.7 million people on the European side; ferries carry 40 million continent-hopping commuters a year.
a642fabf-a5ad-4827-a742-5dda61cc30d8	NARWHAL	Mid-1500s, a German merchant sold what he claimed was a unicorn horn to King Frederick II of Denmark — actually a narwhal tusk (the whale's left canine tooth, up to 9.8 feet). That tusk was later mounted as the central spindle of Denmark's "Unicorn Throne," used to crown Christian V in 1671, still at Rosenborg Castle.
a67c9e2c-8e93-44ee-bb3c-87de97b6f6a9	THE TRUMAN SHOW	"Truman Show delusion" is a real documented psychiatric phenomenon, coined 2008 by NYU psychiatrist Dr. Joel Gold after patients independently described feeling like the secret star of a filmed reality show — three named the 1998 film specifically. Discussed in the British Journal of Psychiatry, not an official DSM diagnosis.
a6acfd08-766d-43ce-b08a-1e405d4d6797	TWIX	Sold as "Raider" across mainland Europe from 1976 until 1991, when Mars renamed it Twix worldwide with the German slogan "Raider heißt jetzt Twix, … sonst ändert sich nix" ("Raider is now called Twix, otherwise nothing changes").
a755c415-5878-422f-9c6b-fecae9e2c135	DUKE BLUE DEVILS	Nickname from "les Diables Bleus" — French WWI Alpine light infantry (Chasseurs Alpins) whose blue uniforms impressed American troops and later toured the US on war-bond tours. Trinity Chronicle editors started calling Duke's teams "Blue Devils" in 1922–23.
a773a8e2-cf96-425e-a9aa-f63de3868d7f	The golf tee	The wooden golf tee was patented by dentists — twice. Boston dentist George Grant patented one in 1899 but never marketed it; New Jersey dentist William Lowell then made his 'Reddy Tee' a hit in the 1920s by paying golf star Walter Hagen to use it. Before tees, golfers teed off on little pyramids of wet sand.
a7adafab-14ef-4bff-9061-8de2aed3ac16	G.I. JOE	In 1964, Hasbro's Don Levine wanted to sell a 12-inch posable soldier doll to boys but knew "doll" was commercial poison — so Hasbro coined "action figure," a term that became the entire industry's generic name for every posable figure since.
a7bebc37-1c21-4a02-81a4-3dcb6c4fef19	Bubba Smith	The no. 1 overall pick of the 1967 NFL draft lost his 1972 season not to a tackle but to the first-down marker — he collided with the solid steel yardage pole at Tampa Stadium in a preseason game, then sued the Tampa Sports Authority and the NFL for $2.5 million in a court battle that ran six years and ended in mistrial. The league later swapped the rigid steel poles for the padded flexible markers used today, in significant part because of his accident.
a8433e00-368c-42a5-ae31-e4f17425ab95	The New Yorker	The 1984 poster for Moscow on the Hudson (Robin Williams) copied the magazine's most famous cover — Saul Steinberg's 1976 "View of the World from 9th Avenue," the Manhattan-centric world map — so closely that a federal court (Steinberg v. Columbia Pictures, 1987) found Columbia liable for copyright infringement, citing matching building placements and even the same loopy hand lettering.
a9273ea5-9da4-4093-99a2-305b72279da5	DENIM	"Denim" comes from French "serge de Nîmes" — fabric from the city of Nîmes — mispronounced and clipped down by English speakers.
a9446926-d950-4e6e-b748-6f22df684258	Toad the Wet Sprocket	The band's name comes from a fake group Eric Idle invented for Monty Python's 1980 "Contractual Obligation Album", a sketch about a nonexistent act with a guitarist who plays "lead electric triangle." Idle picked something "so silly nobody would ever use it," then heard a real band by that name on the radio.
a94da188-4807-42f5-9166-c1379f8dcaae	Space Shuttle Enterprise	NASA's first space shuttle was originally going to be named 'Constitution' for the U.S. Bicentennial. A letter-writing campaign by Star Trek fans — organized by Bjo Trimble and totaling roughly 200,000 letters — convinced President Gerald Ford to rename it instead.
a99c98ae-654e-4334-b168-60cde8f0bff7	Little Debbie	Little Debbie is a real person — Debbie McKee-Fowler, granddaughter of founders O.D. and Ruth McKee. Her grandfather secretly commissioned a portrait of 4-year-old Debbie in her straw hat and put her on oatmeal creme pie boxes in 1960 without telling her parents, who found out only when the cartons came off the press.
aa58876b-a736-4347-be2b-7d00d8ecb85e	CORPSE FLOWER	The titan arum, native only to Sumatran rainforests, takes 7-10 years to first bloom, then blooms for roughly 24-48 hours every few years, releasing a rotting-flesh stench to attract carrion beetles as pollinators.
aa75fde7-42f2-45b1-a412-78382d38975f	Harrison Ford	Harrison Ford filmed a cameo in E.T. (1982) as Elliott's school principal — lecturing him about "deceit and treachery" after the frog-liberation scene while E.T.'s telekinesis levitates Elliott's chair — but Spielberg cut the whole scene, Ford's face is never visible in the footage, and it surfaced only on the 1996 LaserDisc release.
aa9f9d11-dace-4444-86c6-88c6b1401078	Manute Bol	In 2003, 7-foot-7 former NBA center Manute Bol became the tallest person ever licensed as a jockey, approved by the Indiana Horse Racing Commission for a charity event benefiting Sudanese refugees. Arthritis kept him from actually racing that night, but he suited up in silks and a helmet anyway.
ab8b089a-01ae-431c-a9d8-27b13219a342	"ALL SUMMER LONG" (Kid Rock)	(2008) is a mashup built on Lynyrd Skynyrd's "Sweet Home Alabama" riff laid over Warren Zevon's "Werewolves of London" — a producer looped both tracks and Kid Rock/Uncle Kracker wrote the lyrics in ~30 minutes.
abe3e96b-1e54-4296-afff-f356c90b07b3	Smash Mouth	"All Star" band Smash Mouth is named for "smashmouth football" — the no-frills, run-it-down-your-throat offensive style associated with old-school coaches like Mike Ditka — not for anything involving actually smashing mouths.
abeae166-09ad-40d2-9dbe-9f0b85803857	REESE'S PIECES	Got their big break because a rival said no first — Mars turned down Spielberg's 1982 offer to feature M&M's in *E.T.*, so Hershey said yes with Reese's Pieces; sales jumped as much as 300% after the film.
ac771283-00a0-4322-8fc6-efa8b2e5c8ac	Svalbard	On Svalbard — the Arctic Norwegian archipelago — anyone traveling outside the settlements is required to carry a firearm (or comparable deterrent) for polar bear protection, because the roughly 3,000 polar bears there outnumber the ~2,500 permanent human residents.
ac9127cb-1815-4802-ab1e-d524cf4dcfee	SAHARA DESERT	~27.7 million tons of Saharan dust blows across the Atlantic yearly, fertilizing the Amazon — depositing almost exactly the phosphorus the rainforest loses yearly to rain (NASA satellite data). As recently as 6,000 years ago it was a green savanna with lakes, hippos, and giraffes before an abrupt climate shift turned it to sand within a century or two.
ad412882-f605-4ba0-93ba-8e797072c0ec	Adele	At the 2012 Grammys, Adele won all six awards she was nominated for — including Record, Album, and Song of the Year for 21 — a clean sweep in one night.
ad7332f9-3361-4bea-8866-424bd953e8e4	Celine Dion	The Canadian Celine Dion won the 1988 Eurovision Song Contest singing for Switzerland — not Canada — beating the UK's Scott Fitzgerald by a single point, 137–136.
ad9af9ca-0994-448d-b0df-2aded36f6c5a	Buffalo wings	Buffalo wings were improvised at the Anchor Bar in Buffalo, New York, in 1964, when Teressa Bellissimo deep-fried chicken wings — a scrap cut usually saved for stock or thrown out — and tossed them in cayenne-butter sauce for her son's late-night friends. Americans now eat well over a billion wings on Super Bowl Sunday alone.
adaa27ad-2488-4ccd-aecc-a2127beaf0e2	PLATYPUS	One of very few venomous mammals — only males carry it, via a ~12mm spur on each hind ankle wired to a venom gland. Not lethal to humans but causes excruciating pain/swelling lasting months, resistant to standard painkillers.
adf6bfde-2696-45c3-8014-771150ffe08a	VENUS FLYTRAP	Can count — its trap only snaps if two trigger hairs are touched within ~20 seconds (or one hair twice), and takes five total touches before producing digestive enzymes, so it doesn't waste energy on raindrops/debris.
ae3fd8fb-2f86-48c1-84d7-5b6c7671a87d	The Big Lebowski	The Dude is based on real film producer/promoter Jeff Dowd, who the Coen brothers met while he was doing distribution work on their 1984 debut "Blood Simple" — Dowd's own nickname really was "The Dude," and he really did prefer White Russians.
aeb610bb-d076-423a-a117-d2f00d2537b5	Mister Ed	The famous story that peanut butter on his gums made Mister Ed "talk" is a deliberate lie — star Alan Young admitted he invented it because producers didn't want to disillusion kids. Trainer Les Hilton actually used a nylon thread under the horse's lip, and the palomino (real name: Bamboo Harvester) eventually got so good he'd move his lips on cue whenever Young stopped talking.
aff247a3-7c69-44de-a4c4-61666cc47930	New York Knicks	The name traces to Washington Irving, who in 1809 wrote a satirical fake history of New York under pen name "Diedrich Knickerbocker," making "Knickerbocker" synonymous with old-line New Yorkers. When the basketball team needed a name in 1946, staffers wrote options on slips of paper and pulled one from a hat — "Knickerbockers," shortened to Knicks, won.
b1064606-ea8d-4483-9d44-8b2071ab3126	GUILLOTINE	Dr. Joseph-Ignace Guillotin proposed the beheading machine in 1789 as a more humane execution method — he was a death-penalty opponent, never built it himself, and died peacefully at home in 1814. His family was so mortified they petitioned to change their surname; when refused, they changed it themselves to "Guillemin."
b12b3f70-f05e-42ac-b2d9-8b28445f9252	Rihanna	In 2021, Forbes named Rihanna America's youngest self-made female billionaire, her fortune built mainly on Fenty Beauty rather than music.
b155b2cc-6582-4127-8a10-805ee6040ffb	THE DOORS	Jim Morrison named the band after Aldous Huxley's 1954 book *The Doors of Perception* (Huxley's mescaline-trip account), itself titled from an 18th-century William Blake line.
b1be86e0-5a46-467d-b190-925cfe4762f6	Waterloo	Waterloo is a real town in Belgium, just south of Brussels — site of Napoleon's final defeat in 1815.
b1f39de1-f12b-453f-b676-76c4bf597523	THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON	Arthur Wellesley, who beat Napoleon at Waterloo (1815), had his bootmaker rework his Hessian boots into a sleeker calfskin design in 1817 — caught on with British gentlemen and, after Goodyear's rubber vulcanization, became the modern rubber "Wellington boot."
b20ae553-fc0a-4558-af45-cc55350590cd	PEREGRINE FALCON	Fastest animal on the planet — radar-verified stoop (hunting dive) speed of 184 mph.
b20f7d0d-7788-4e50-af99-68acce6f7be5	MICHIGAN STADIUM ("The Big House")	Jan. 1, 2014, hosted the NHL Winter Classic (Red Wings vs. Maple Leafs), drawing 105,491 — largest crowd ever for a hockey game, breaking the prior record ALSO set at Michigan Stadium (2010 Michigan–MSU outdoor game, 104,173).
b22b264f-142c-499d-913b-c906d93c80e4	Guam	Guam is nearly 8,000 miles from Washington, DC — farther than Beijing, Delhi, Cape Town, or Buenos Aires.
b247ef57-92a4-4b81-889d-e5ab3660bb86	MOUNT FUJI	Japan's sacred, near-perfectly symmetrical volcano last erupted in 1707-08 (the Hōei eruption) and has been dormant since.
b299da3b-9135-41d2-a42c-ea3a922c6c4b	Heidi	November 17, 1968: with the Jets up 32–29 and 65 seconds left, NBC cut away from Jets–Raiders to start the movie Heidi on schedule. The Raiders then scored two touchdowns in nine seconds to win 43–32 — and nobody saw it. Furious fans blew 26 fuses on NBC's switchboard; the "Heidi Game" is why NFL broadcasts are now contractually required to air to completion in home markets.
b337c8d9-1dcb-4ab2-b233-e3a5c51f0665	Gatorade	Gatorade was invented in 1965 after University of Florida head football coach Ray Graves asked kidney specialist Dr. Robert Cade why his players lost so much weight during games and almost never needed to urinate. Cade's team found the Gators' blood sugar and electrolytes were crashing, and mixed water, sodium, sugar, potassium and lemon juice into the fix — tested on Florida players that same fall.
b388f8fc-a73e-45a5-9215-5cee2448fddd	E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial	Spielberg's team first offered the candy product-placement to Mars, maker of M&M's, and got turned down. Hershey's said yes with Reese's Pieces instead — spending no cash on the deal, just $1 million in E.T.-themed ads — and within two weeks of the film's 1982 release, Reese's Pieces sales reportedly tripled and outsold M&M's for the first time.
b3be1744-a79e-41d1-b24f-1fb81da8b3d2	Live pigeon shooting (1900 Paris Olympics)	The only Olympic event ever built around intentionally killing animals was live pigeon shooting at the 1900 Paris Games. Belgian shooter Leon de Lunden won by killing 21 birds; competitors combined to kill roughly 300 pigeons before the event was dropped forever, later replaced by clay targets in other shooting events.
b3d498c4-0ab7-41f2-b72f-b02e859b4ddf	Chef Boyardee	Chef Boyardee was a real chef — Italian immigrant Ettore "Hector" Boiardi — and a decorated WW2 supplier: when the US entered the war his company ran the factory 24/7, at peak employing ~5,000 workers and turning out 250,000 cans of rations a day for Allied troops, for which the US War Department awarded Boiardi a Gold Star order of excellence in 1946. The brand is spelled "Boy-Ar-Dee" phonetically so American customers could pronounce his name.
b3e33995-5e80-4623-9b1c-5d1296155784	MOTOWN (Berry Gordy)	Berry Gordy founded Tamla/Motown Records in Detroit Jan. 12, 1959 with an $800 family loan, out of a converted photography studio nicknamed "Hitsville U.S.A."
b404bf46-b16f-4ee9-b81d-5de151df2a78	DIAMOND	Physicists believe it rains solid diamonds deep inside Neptune and Uranus — over 5,000 miles down, immense pressure breaks methane into hydrocarbon chains that crystallize into diamond. In 2017, Lawrence Livermore Lab and SLAC recreated the process with lasers and X-rays.
b51a7ba4-3ab8-486d-88d3-7f0d1b4631bc	Mont Blanc	At 15,777 feet, Mont Blanc is the tallest peak in the Alps and the highest point in Western Europe, straddling the France-Italy border.
b5333eb1-bdc5-4066-b701-3ddc128b6046	Moxie	Moxie is America's oldest continuously sold soft drink — launched in 1876 as "Moxie Nerve Food," a patent medicine, then sold as a soda from 1884. It's Maine's official state soft drink. The word "moxie" (meaning nerve, guts, spunk) entered English FROM the drink's marketing — first slang citation traced to a 1930 Damon Runyon story.
b5628d87-6689-43fb-863d-9f1276924b67	The Zamboni (Frank Zamboni)	The Zamboni exists because two brothers' ice-delivery business dried up as home refrigerators took over in the 1930s and '40s, so they opened an ice rink instead. Resurfacing it by hand took a five-person crew ninety minutes, so Frank Zamboni spent years designing a machine that could do it in fifteen — the first rolled out in 1949.
b5716481-2e03-45ed-9e24-7b4b0d89d725	FLAMINGO	Flamingos stand on one leg largely to conserve body heat in cold water. The plastic pink lawn flamingo, designed 1957 by artist Don Featherstone for Union Products, has been reproduced more than 20 million times.
b6456d9a-97d2-490f-ad00-eac2626d0fda	MOUSE TRAP	The 1963 Rube-Goldberg-style board game was designed by Marvin Glass and Associates, who openly acknowledged it was directly inspired by Rube Goldberg's cartoons (while refusing to pay him licensing fees).
b68a59ea-d680-4b1c-b558-b422a6ae9b56	Twister	When Milton Bradley launched Twister in 1966, Sears refused to stock it and critics branded it 'sex in a box' for putting players' bodies in close contact. The game was floundering until Johnny Carson played it on The Tonight Show with actress Eva Gabor — the broadcast sent sales past three million copies within a year.
b6b2220e-8367-4aab-a8f1-d9d928cf9e12	RISK	Invented 1957 by Albert Lamorisse, a French film director, not a game designer — released in France as "La Conquête du Monde" before Parker Brothers Americanized it in 1959.
b729a13e-a4d8-49ed-b44e-7af767704e25	CHICAGO WHITE SOX	July 12, 1979 "Disco Demolition Night" — 98-cent entry for bringing a disco record to blow up between a doubleheader's games. ~50,000 showed (over capacity); DJ Steve Dahl detonated the crate, the resulting riot forced a forfeit of game two.
b7476790-9a5a-493d-acde-8dc46e5fdba6	Salarium	MYTH (no ancient source actually says this): that Roman soldiers were literally paid in salt, and that's where "salary" comes from. The word IS real — Latin "salarium" (from "sal," salt) was a soldier's stipend, likely earmarked partly toward buying salt, which was a genuinely precious, state-controlled preservative in the ancient world. But the vivid image of legionaries being handed sacks of salt as wages appears nowhere in Roman writing — it's a modern embellishment stacked onto a real etymology.
b8362a85-a891-4552-8a9f-c7d54b4dfa58	Mickey (Toni Basil)	The cheerleader squealing "Oh Mickey, you're so fine" was a 39-year-old avant-garde choreography veteran — before her 1982 #1, Toni Basil co-directed and choreographed Talking Heads' "Once in a Lifetime" video (she set up the camera and helped Byrne stylize his preacher-in-a-trance moves), choreographed for David Bowie (Glass Spider tour), acted in Easy Rider (1969), and co-founded the pioneering street-dance crew The Lockers.
b9b3f4e6-36c3-4f0d-93cf-f0db017cb8c5	Sleeping Bear Dunes	Sleeping Bear Dunes was voted "Most Beautiful Place in America" by Good Morning America viewers in 2011, beating out nine other national nominees. The dunes' name predates that vote by centuries: an Ojibwe/Chippewa legend holds that a mother bear and her two cubs swam across Lake Michigan fleeing a forest fire; the cubs drowned short of shore, and the Great Spirit raised North and South Manitou Island to mark where they went under while the grieving mother bear waits, buried in the dune, on the mainland shore.
b9ed9d25-da79-4155-afbf-31d092c39366	Ketchup	Ketchup started life with no tomatoes at all — the word comes from Hokkien kê-chiap, a fermented fish brine from southern China, and Brits made it with mushrooms from the 1600s on. Tomato ketchup is American (first recipe 1812, by James Mease) — and in the 1830s Dr. John Cook Bennett declared tomatoes a cure for indigestion, jaundice, and diarrhea, boiled ketchup down and sold it in pharmacies as tomato PILLS; the craze died around 1850 after copycats got caught selling laxatives (some with no tomato in them) as tomato pills.
ba1d0773-bae2-40ee-aa86-f4cf8a32a1b2	Rubber Duck	The rubber duck was inducted into the National Toy Hall of Fame in 2013 (alongside chess), decades after 28,800 of them — part of a "Friendly Floatees" bath-toy shipment — spilled off a cargo ship in the North Pacific in January 1992. Oceanographer Curtis Ebbesmeyer tracked their landfalls for years and, with colleague James Ingraham, used the data to build an ocean-current model (OSCAR) that correctly predicted where they'd wash up next — some turned up on UK beaches over a decade later.
ba8d5188-751f-40f9-b116-94cc77dd26c9	Neil Diamond ("Sweet Caroline")	Neil Diamond wrote "Sweet Caroline" in 1969 after seeing a magazine photo of nine-year-old Caroline Kennedy, JFK's daughter, dressed in riding gear beside her pony. He kept the inspiration secret for almost 40 years, finally telling her himself when he performed the song via satellite at her 50th birthday party. Today the song is best known as Fenway Park's eighth-inning singalong tradition for the Boston Red Sox.
bace782a-aa46-496f-8c93-b28d883bc6e6	TANGO	"Tango" is the word for "T" in the NATO phonetic alphabet, finalized 1956 after linguist Jean-Paul Vinay tested code words across 31 nationalities to avoid confusion with "Bravo," "Delta," "Papa," "Victor" over garbled radio.
bad58680-afca-4993-b388-7a3574a86d21	Chuck Berry	"Johnny B. Goode" is the only rock and roll song on the Voyager Golden Record, launched aboard NASA's Voyager 1 and 2 in 1977 as humanity's musical calling card to the cosmos (Carl Sagan had final say on the track list).
bb1109d3-fae9-4408-8593-552444dace11	Law & Order	The "dun dun" is a copyrighted piece of music titled "The Clang," built by composer Mike Post from sampled sounds including a slamming jail door, a hammer on an anvil, and — per Post — 500 Japanese men stamping their feet on a wooden floor. Because it's registered as music rather than a sound effect, Post collects a royalty every time it plays.
bc2ad983-27e0-4923-b11f-9bc262090d37	A Christmas Story	The story is set in fictional Hohman, Indiana, based on author Jean Shepherd's real hometown of Hammond, Indiana — but director Bob Clark shot the exteriors in Cleveland, Ohio, because of its real Higbee's department store, which became the film's iconic Santa-line set.
bc2e9c1d-e201-4461-8dc9-82ca03e5ac98	Ghostbusters	Ray Parker Jr.'s title theme was built to fit a temp-track scene the studio sent him — one scored to Huey Lewis and the News' "I Want a New Drug," a song Lewis himself had already turned down writing the film's theme around. After the movie became a hit, Lewis sued Parker for lifting the melody and bassline; the two settled under an NDA that Lewis later broke on VH1's Behind the Music, and Parker then successfully countersued him for breach.
bc528d30-ec04-4c3b-bf32-a4b29edae320	I Will Survive	The Grammys created the "Best Disco Recording" category for the 1980 ceremony, right as the anti-disco backlash was peaking months after Disco Demolition Night. "I Will Survive" won it, and the category was killed the very next year - the first and only Grammy ever handed out for disco.
bc999375-21d2-4040-ba92-b1d6f7128c84	Friends	The show's theme was originally under a minute long for the opening credits; a Nashville radio program director looped it into a full song, requests exploded, and Warner Bros. forced the Rembrandts to record a complete 3-minute version (May 1995) — which then topped Billboard's Hot 100 Airplay chart for 8 weeks without even being available as a retail single, a first.
bcb01ecf-9bc7-4763-8630-c900ba7af1ec	"CANDLE IN THE WIND 1997" (Elton John)	His rewrite for Princess Diana's funeral is the 2nd-best-selling physical single of all time worldwide (behind only Bing Crosby's "White Christmas") — 33 million copies, best-selling single since pop charts began in the 1950s.
bcb9af04-bec3-4618-b87e-146b72eb7037	Isle Royale	This Michigan national park sits in Lake Superior 53 miles from the Michigan mainland but only 15 miles from Ontario — closer to Canada than to the state that owns it. It's also the least-visited national park in the lower 48 (~17,000-29,000 visitors/year, boat or seaplane only).
bd73b24a-6cb7-4ebf-a333-e629208a5a8d	Ouija board	The Ouija board got its U.S. patent in 1891 only after a skeptical patent officer demanded proof: he told the inventors that if the board could spell out his name — which he had not given them — they would get the patent. It reportedly did. The board itself supposedly chose the name 'Ouija,' claiming it meant 'good luck.'
bd88adaf-6bd8-44ec-818a-56e6bd294d44	Red Bull	Red Bull is a reworked version of a Thai energy drink called Krating Daeng ("red gaur"), sold to Thai truck drivers by Chaleo Yoovidhya. Austrian salesman Dietrich Mateschitz tried it for jet lag in 1982, then partnered with Yoovidhya in 1984 — each put in $500,000 — to carbonate and de-sweeten it for European tastes.
bd8d4127-ea2a-458f-ac49-9ef005e7b961	Groundhog Day	The 1993 Bill Murray film is set in Punxsutawney, PA, but not a single frame was shot there — it was filmed in Woodstock, Illinois, 61 miles northwest of Chicago. Crews built a fake "Welcome to Punxsutawney" sign and removed it after filming.
be73dfee-b51a-4e1b-b468-e89b757c210b	Hail Mary	Roger Staubach didn't invent the "Hail Mary" pass with the famous 1975 Cowboys-Vikings touchdown — he'd already used the phrase 12 years earlier as a Navy quarterback, describing a desperation touchdown against Michigan in 1963. The term goes back further still: Notre Dame players literally said a Hail Mary prayer in the huddle before a game-winning score against Georgia Tech in 1922.
bfd4d2db-43a0-4985-8627-feb52e52c2b6	GIRAFFE	Blue-black tongue (likely sunburn protection), up to 18-20 inches long. Despite a 6-foot neck, exactly 7 neck vertebrae — same count as a human — just wildly elongated (11+ inches each vs. our ~1 inch).
c12e6709-7a28-4861-8818-550a7ffac3ba	VAMPIRE SQUID	Despite the name, it's neither a true squid nor octopus — sole survivor of its own ancient order — and doesn't drink blood; it's a deep-sea detritivore eating marine snow.
c282bbe4-e522-403b-bcb5-a0858da67878	GREEN BAY PACKERS	Only publicly owned, non-profit team in major US pro sports — 537,000+ shareholders, no one allowed to own more than a small fraction. Dates to 1923, when local businessmen ("Hungry Five") sold stock to save the team from insolvency; grandfathered against the NFL's current single-controlling-owner rule.
c3f8f12a-61db-43d6-83ff-82c6107aed79	Prince	In 1993, amid a contract dispute with Warner Bros., Prince legally changed his stage name to an unpronounceable glyph and was known for years as "The Artist Formerly Known As Prince."
c430d8d5-4fce-4e0b-8349-89037a5a8a37	Toy Story	The license plate on Andy's mom's minivan reads "A113" — the classroom number for first-year Character Animation students at CalArts, where John Lasseter, Brad Bird, Pete Docter, and Tim Burton all studied.
c488fcdb-60e8-4ce6-b23e-82abe94167c8	Edward Lowe (Kitty Litter)	Kitty Litter was invented by accident in Cassopolis, Michigan in 1947, when Edward Lowe gave a neighbor a bag of absorbent clay — fuller's earth, meant for soaking up factory grease spills — instead of the sand she'd asked for to fill her cat's box. She loved it so much he started bagging the clay and driving it door to door; the company he founded later created Tidy Cat.
c53de5d6-4f49-43c7-b244-7dde2cc7d7d4	Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest	MYTH-BUST: Nathan's Famous Hot Dog Eating Contest was not founded in 1916 by four immigrants settling an argument over patriotism. That origin story was invented in the 1970s by publicist Morty Matz as a PR stunt. The earliest documented contest didn't happen until 1972, and the tradition only exploded after Japan's Takeru Kobayashi nearly doubled the winning total in 2001.
c594befc-91b8-42a0-956f-d0b477a9fb5f	THE GREAT CHICAGO FIRE	Oct. 8-9, 1871, killed ~300 people, destroyed 17,000+ buildings across ~2,100 acres.
c5c3e213-253e-4ccf-a839-929402ad9153	Liberia	The 1982 Guinness Book of Records lists the most fraudulent election in world history: Liberia's 1927 presidential vote, where incumbent Charles D. B. King officially received ~234,000 votes (sources range 234k–240k) in a country with roughly 15,000 registered voters — more than 15 times the possible turnout. His challenger's fraud accusations spiraled into a League of Nations slavery investigation that forced King to resign in 1930.
c5d52f17-87b0-4ae1-aa25-1a4232d2981e	The Shining	In Stephen King's novel the Grady sisters aren't twins, but Kubrick recast them that way after his assistant Leon Vitali showed him Diane Arbus's 1967 photograph "Identical Twins, Roselle, New Jersey" from a 1972 MoMA retrospective catalog. Kubrick had a personal connection to the image — Arbus had mentored him in the late 1940s when he was a rookie photographer for Look magazine.
c74a7861-cb26-4fd7-bad9-90d91f0f9601	Abbey Road	MYTH-BUST: The Abbey Road crossing is NOT a UNESCO World Heritage site — it's a Grade II listed structure under English Heritage (December 2010), the first zebra crossing ever listed. The listing also credits the crossing type's inventor: Lord Hore-Belisha, namesake of the 'Belisha beacon.'
c79377ad-55e6-4a10-83f2-6aad592cfa26	DUNG BEETLE	*Scarabaeus satyrus* is the only insect confirmed to navigate by the Milky Way — a 2013 Lund University study (*Current Biology*) showed they roll dung balls in straight lines using the galaxy's light band, even on moonless nights.
c814d1c5-4a09-4e96-bcd4-d4a6392138e8	Ferris Bueller's Day Off	None of the three "Ferraris" destroyed and driven on-screen were real — all three were fiberglass replicas of a Ferrari 250 GT California built by Modena Design & Development; Ferrari sued Modena for trademark infringement over the badges.
c86fbcc1-bb7e-44e6-b0ce-9467a545049c	Mentos	Dropping Mentos into Diet Coke doesn't cause a chemical reaction — it's pure physics. A 2008 peer-reviewed study by Appalachian State physicist Tonya Coffey found the candy's pitted, rough surface (and a gum arabic coating that dissolves fast) creates thousands of nucleation sites that let dissolved CO2 escape almost instantly, launching a geyser.
c8be04d2-1c52-4f3e-af1b-aabbffb1ad30	Spaghetti	Richard Feynman spent an entire evening in his kitchen with fellow physicist Danny Hillis trying to break a strand of dry spaghetti into exactly two pieces by bending it — it kept snapping into three or more, and by the end the kitchen floor was covered in broken pasta and they still didn't know why. The 2006 Ig Nobel Prize in Physics went to French physicists Basile Audoly and Sebastien Neukirch for finally explaining it: the initial break triggers a "snap-back" vibration wave that shatters the rest of the strand.
c95eafe7-c9d0-4572-bfcf-8979106f4a89	Sherlock Holmes	In April 2016, a sonar sweep of Loch Ness (Kongsberg's Munin underwater robot, "Operation Groundtruth") finally found a monster — a 30-foot Nessie prop 180 meters down, built for Billy Wilder's 1970 film The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes. It sank during filming in 1969 because Wilder ordered its two humps removed over crew warnings that the humps were what kept it afloat.
cb6dad7e-ad0b-4a22-832f-32c0bbf7767a	The Jersey Devil	During the January 1909 sighting panic — hundreds of reports in one week — South Jersey schools closed, mills sent workers home, and the Philadelphia Zoo posted a $10,000 reward for its capture, which drew hoaxers including a kangaroo fitted with fake wings. The reward has never been claimed.
cb6e9021-f020-43a6-8cb8-34d6a6779cc0	Jacuzzi	Jacuzzi was a family of Italian-immigrant aviation engineers — they built propellers for WWI aircraft — before a child's illness changed the business. In the 1940s Candido Jacuzzi adapted one of the family's agricultural water pumps into a submersible bath jet to ease his young son's rheumatoid arthritis. The hot tub grew out of a medical device.
cbb86c4a-73ff-4e36-bdf0-a7078b7901bb	GIANT SQUID	No one saw a live giant squid in its natural habitat until Sept. 30, 2004, when Japanese researcher Tsunemi Kubodera got the first photographs; first video didn't come until July 2012.
cbc0bf49-951c-4bb2-b5fa-a2f651d5db68	WOMBAT	Only known animal to produce cube-shaped droppings (up to 80-100 cubes/night) — uneven intestinal stiffness makes them stack instead of roll. Won the 2019 Ig Nobel Prize in Physics.
cc05500a-1fd2-471a-ad96-8fcf88ec240e	Hummer (the cocktail)	The Hummer — white rum, Kahlúa, and two scoops of vanilla ice cream, so thick a straw stands upright, with nearly 4 oz of booze in a 7.5-oz glass — was invented in 1968 at Detroit's Bayview Yacht Club by bartender Jerome Adams, and is effectively Michigan's signature cocktail. It got its name when the club's bar chairman Ed Jacoby downed a few and declared "After two of these damn things, kinda makes you wanna hum." (A 1982 Detroit Free Press piece once credited the London Chop House instead — either way, it's Detroit's drink.)
ce891e84-bce2-4779-8c23-1ee11cba0ea0	Seinfeld	Cosmo Kramer is based on Larry David's real across-the-hall neighbor Kenny Kramer, who has run official "Kramer's Reality Tour" bus tours of NYC Seinfeld filming spots for decades (parodied in-show in "The Muffin Tops").
cf8aba18-d985-4780-8c08-21f9b9563422	Rogue Wave	For centuries "walls of water" that appear suddenly out of normal seas were dismissed by scientists as sailors' tall tales — physically impossible under standard wave models. That changed on New Year's Day 1995, when a laser sensor on Norway's Draupner oil platform recorded an 84-foot wave rising out of 39-foot seas, the first rogue wave ever measured by an instrument instead of just witnessed.
cfeb8ab6-cfb5-4768-8c9a-1e1eda4e7bae	THE ROSETTA STONE	Discovered near Rosetta, Egypt in 1799; its parallel Greek/hieroglyphic/demotic text let Champollion crack Egyptian hieroglyphics in 1822, after 1,400+ years unreadable.
d038e95b-df4c-4a42-bc02-6ab4017cddf4	Bigfoot	The FBI really has a Bigfoot file — 22 pages, declassified June 2019. In 1976 Peter Byrne of the Bigfoot Information Center in The Dalles, Oregon, mailed the Bureau ~15 hairs attached to a scrap of skin; the FBI lab broke its own evidence-only policy to analyze them and concluded in 1977: "the hairs are of deer family origin." The kicker: the reply apparently never reached Byrne — he learned his Bigfoot hair was deer 43 years later, at age 93, when reporters called about the released file.
d097d7c2-0fd3-4429-b711-ee12c00e6f26	Faygo	Faygo started in Detroit in 1907 as Feigenson Brothers Bottling Works — Russian immigrant bakers Ben and Perry Feigenson turned their cake-frosting recipes into soda flavors (grape, strawberry, fruit punch). They shortened 'Feigenson' to 'Faygo' in the 1920s so it would fit on a bottle.
d0bf7c33-f4bd-4c81-b161-8babbbde8f4b	The Cranberries	The "Zombie" band started as "The Cranberry Saw Us" — a Limerick pun that, said fast, sounds exactly like "cranberry sauce." A returned demo tape came back in the mail addressed simply to "The Cranberries," and the shortened name stuck — before Dolores O'Riordan had even joined as singer.
d12a46f0-c152-4828-b308-6a907ebb20a5	WILLY WONKA & THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY	Dahl's novel is *Charlie and the Chocolate Factory* — the studio renamed the 1971 film after the side character specifically to promote a real candy bar; Quaker Oats financed it through a candy subsidiary (later renamed The Willy Wonka Candy Company).
d12fce74-9efb-4ced-a463-9625226769d9	Log Cabin Syrup	The syrup's log-cabin-shaped bottle is a tribute — grocer Patrick J. Towle named the brand in 1887 after his childhood hero Abraham Lincoln, honoring the log cabin where Lincoln was born.
d2948770-c031-4e65-8b2b-3050ecd0f3df	PET ROCK	In 1975, ad copywriter Gary Dahl sold ordinary Rosarito, Mexico beach stones as "Pet Rocks" with a tongue-in-cheek 36-page training manual — moving ~1.3-1.5 million units in six months, making him a millionaire.
d3b080ad-0721-4281-acfc-a2953a60bee0	Q	Not a single U.S. state name contains the letter Q — the only letter in the alphabet with that distinction. Every other letter shows up somewhere, even J and Z, thanks to New Jersey and Arizona.
d49b3fa0-1a02-41d3-9bea-87962ac2ac70	Nauru	This tiny Pacific island — the world's third-smallest country by area — got rich almost overnight in the 1970s by strip-mining its own ground into cash: its entire interior turned out to be nearly pure phosphate, formed over millennia from seabird droppings. By 1975 it had the second-highest per capita GDP on Earth (behind only Saudi Arabia); by the 2000s the phosphate was gone, 80% of the island was an unlivable moonscape, and the country was nearly bankrupt.
d513d6e6-957c-4e5f-8475-8f00b1a2fb4f	LEGO	LEGO holds the Guinness World Record as the world's largest tire manufacturer by units — roughly 300+ million tiny rubber tires a year, peaking at 381 million in 2010. Nearly half of all LEGO sets include wheels.
d51c197d-8e1a-434a-9263-a6bbd61bcdb5	William Howard Taft	"Taft got stuck in the White House bathtub" — no contemporary account, official record, or newspaper story supports it ever happening. Historian Alexis Coe found zero evidence; the tale traces to a 1929 magazine piece and chief usher Ike Hoover's 1934 memoir, both decades after the fact. What IS true: a custom tub so enormous a February 1909 Engineering Review photo shows four grown men sitting in it comfortably.
d595a663-529e-4305-b921-05439313fb74	Bill Post (Pop-Tarts)	The Pop-Tart was developed in 1963-64 by Bill Post, a Grand Rapids, Michigan native who was plant manager at Keebler's predecessor, Hekman Biscuit Co., when Kellogg's approached him with the concept. Post's team turned the idea into a shelf-stable toaster pastry in about four months; Post himself had started at the company at age 16, washing trucks.
d5b1c437-f939-4466-9b82-0ed5da3b7e79	Come On Eileen (Dexys Midnight Runners)	The band name comes from Dexedrine — "Dexys" — the amphetamine Northern Soul dancers took to dance all night, hence "Midnight Runners." And its one week at US No. 1 (April 23, 1983) landed exactly between "Billie Jean" and "Beat It," making it the song that denied Michael Jackson back-to-back No. 1s at his Thriller peak.
d5c35fcf-2403-4e69-af47-955c9f75275a	NOSTALGIA	Coined 1688 by Swiss doctor Johannes Hofer from Greek *nostos* ("homecoming") + *algos* ("pain") — invented to diagnose a real, sometimes-fatal condition afflicting Swiss mercenaries abroad.
d5feb919-1014-4f48-a92f-7db1d8c586d6	Kellogg's corn flakes (Battle Creek, Michigan)	Corn flakes were invented as a bland health food meant to curb 'passions' for patients at a Seventh-day Adventist sanitarium in Battle Creek, Michigan. Brothers John Harvey and Will Keith Kellogg developed the recipe together in the 1890s — then fell out so badly over how to market it that they ended up suing each other.
d637fc13-f139-4df7-a337-f94d10c139d4	Oumuamua	In 2017, a Canadian astronomer using a Hawaiian telescope spotted the first confirmed object from outside our solar system ever detected passing through it — cigar-or-pancake-shaped, tumbling, reddish, and already on its way back out by the time anyone saw it. It was named using Hawaiian language for "scout" or "messenger reaching out from the distant past."
d6d22f66-b9ca-496d-acc0-091549b4bdaa	ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL	Won the US telephone patent by mere hours over rival Elisha Gray on Feb. 14, 1876 — Bell filed a full application that morning, Gray a lesser "caveat" hours later, still debated by historians.
d74aa436-af46-435f-b9bb-4f16d4c074b1	DETROIT LIONS	Have hosted an NFL Thanksgiving Day game every year since 1934 (skipping only WWII years) — started by owner George A. Richards, who also owned radio station WJR and got the game aired across NBC's whole network.
d78b1a50-6f1c-4164-a63e-3310d7b0a0ce	ELLIS ISLAND	~12 million immigrants were processed there between 1892 and 1954 — an estimated two-fifths of living Americans can trace ancestry through it.
d79483e3-3974-4d5f-8abf-78ac37b5e11a	Guinness World Records (born from a beer executive's pub argument)	The Guinness Book of Records exists because Guinness's own managing director, Sir Hugh Beaver, got into an argument at a 1951 shooting party over which was Europe's fastest game bird and couldn't find a reference book to settle it. He commissioned twin researchers to compile a book of facts as a pub-argument-settling giveaway; it published in 1955 and became its own industry.
d843ec6c-e323-455b-a5e7-9185021a067f	KILIMANJARO	Tallest free-standing mountain on Earth, not part of any range. Its ice cap — the one that inspired Hemingway's *The Snows of Kilimanjaro* — has lost 80%+ of its coverage since 1912, projected to vanish by mid-century.
d85904ab-49af-40cd-b3ee-1c9493769227	Terry Crews	Before Old Spice ads or Brooklyn Nine-Nine, Terry Crews spent six NFL seasons as a linebacker/defensive end — drafted by the Rams in 1991, then the Packers, Chargers, an NFL Europe team in Germany, the Redskins, and the Eagles — before retiring in 1997 to chase acting.
d8a66ea6-f924-4dd2-8ad0-8ce3f1c59a39	Tahquamenon Falls	Michigan's Upper Peninsula waterfall is the second-largest east of the Mississippi — 200 feet wide, 48 feet tall — and its water runs root-beer colored from tannic acid leached out of upstream cedar/hemlock swamps.
d8b85b0b-0e77-4b4c-82f0-22c1ea58db68	CHICHEN ITZA	The El Castillo pyramid is a temple to Kukulkan, the Maya feathered-serpent god — on the spring/fall equinoxes, shadows on its staircase form the illusion of a serpent slithering down the steps.
d8dc0c3a-8a48-41ef-89e1-8abd1cc5092c	Sigourney Weaver	Her reported $11 million salary (plus co-producer credit) for Alien Resurrection (1997) was as much as the entire production budget of the original Alien (1979, budget commonly cited at $11M; Wikipedia gives $8.4–14M) — a film she made for roughly $33,000.
d90b3ebb-5331-4667-b35f-baf7e4392df0	Islands in the Stream	The signature Kenny Rogers–Dolly Parton country duet (a 1983 pop #1) was written entirely by the Bee Gees, originally in an R&B style intended for Marvin Gaye, and its title comes from a posthumous Ernest Hemingway novel.
d9181cac-e2c2-4389-805a-5540b5f85d73	Cherenkov Radiation	The eerie blue glow around a nuclear reactor core isn't radioactivity itself — it's Cherenkov radiation, a light shockwave from charged particles moving through water faster than light travels in that water. Pavel Cherenkov shared the 1958 Nobel Prize in Physics for explaining it.
d92e5209-8b95-43bd-a813-393d3bba0b5b	SARCASM	From Greek *sarkazein*, "to strip off the flesh, like dogs" — from *sarx* ("flesh").
d990567c-b7a5-4f9b-a297-d094bbd07f5e	Wrigley	Wrigley chewing gum began as a free giveaway. In 1891 William Wrigley Jr. sold soap, then baking powder, throwing in free gum as a bonus — when the gum outsold the actual product, he switched businesses. That pivot eventually paid for the Chicago Cubs' ballpark, still named Wrigley Field.
d9983ec8-8f21-4e67-bed3-ee3657db4d96	Techno (the Belleville Three)	Techno music was born not in Berlin or Chicago but in Belleville, Michigan — a small town outside Detroit — where three high-school friends, Juan Atkins, Derrick May and Kevin Saunderson (the 'Belleville Three'), fused Kraftwerk and funk in the early 1980s. Atkins is called the Godfather of Techno.
d9ec006f-b8ef-4fd8-b1eb-0ba05fdcb868	Pitcairn Islands	This British territory in the South Pacific has a permanent population of just 35 people (as of the 2023 count) — the smallest population of any political jurisdiction on Earth — nearly all of them descended from just nine mutineers off HMS Bounty and the twelve Tahitian women who fled with them in 1790.
da3b9cbd-a7bf-4df4-883c-e7d0f22287e6	Thomas Edison	The oldest recording of a human voice beat his phonograph by 17 years — on April 9, 1860, Frenchman Édouard-Léon Scott de Martinville's phonautograph traced 20 seconds of "Au Clair de la Lune" into soot-covered paper. The machine could record but not play back, so nobody heard it until 2008, when Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory scientists optically scanned the squiggles into sound. First playback ran at double speed — the world thought it was a woman or girl singing until researchers corrected it to a man, almost certainly Scott himself, singing very slowly.
da6e2195-d40c-40c3-b991-59db12a59c10	Carl Sagan	In 1958 the US Air Force ran classified Project A119 — a plan to detonate a W25 nuclear warhead (1.7 kt) on the Moon's terminator line as a visible Cold War show of force. A young Carl Sagan, then a doctoral student, did the math on how the dust cloud would expand in vacuum so the flash could be seen from Earth. The project stayed secret for 40+ years — and only surfaced because Sagan himself leaked classified paper titles on a 1959 Berkeley fellowship application, which biographer Keay Davidson found in the 1990s; project leader Leonard Reiffel then confirmed everything in 2000.
da7a4570-a949-409d-9c49-04a31d9f7290	(Arizona) Cardinals	The NFL's oldest franchise got its name from laundry-grade thrift: in 1901, Chicago club owner Chris O'Brien bought used jerseys off the University of Chicago, whose maroon had faded so badly he declared "That's not maroon, it's cardinal red!" — and renamed his team the Cardinals. The team traces to the 1898 Morgan Athletic Club, making it the oldest continuously operating professional football team in the US.
dabf944b-68e0-4d0b-80d3-1d6feeb097f2	Dolly Parton	Died August 25, 2026, at 80 in Nashville (confirmed: NPR/NBC/Variety/CNN obituaries). Deep cut for the tribute slot: she wrote "9 to 5" on the movie set using her acrylic fingernails as a rhythm instrument — clicking them to mimic a typewriter — and the nails play on the actual recording. The 9 to 5 and Odd Jobs album carries the back-cover credit "Nails by Dolly."
db256c03-f66d-485c-9140-c3ea3d33b933	Cardigan	The button-front knit sweater is named for James Thomas Brudenell, 7th Earl of Cardigan, who led the doomed Charge of the Light Brigade at the Battle of Balaclava (Crimean War, 1854) — he reportedly wore one leading the charge; the word entered English by 1868.
db52372d-961d-4d72-9f1f-32cfe5265644	Lancer	JFK's Secret Service codename was "Lancer." The Kennedy presidency was never called "Camelot" while he was alive — Jacqueline Kennedy created that framing days after the assassination, in a December 1963 Life interview with Theodore H. White, quoting the closing lyrics of the musical Camelot.
dcc01450-5269-45fd-85e2-bf519bc7026d	McDonald's	The world's only "float-through" McDonald's — a drive-thru for kayaks and canoes, order via app, staff hand your bag down to a dock — sits on a canal off the Elbe River in Hamburg, Germany.
dd0f11da-de06-406d-819b-e1b3c158eab4	Cheap Trick	Cheap Trick's name isn't a lyric: bassist Tom Petersson coined it in 1973 watching a Slade concert, muttering that the glam-rock headliners were pulling "every cheap trick in the book" onstage.
dd329f81-d95c-4e55-a9ed-36f3c8ad6ac8	Duracell	The pink drumming battery bunny didn't start as Energizer's mascot - Duracell created it in 1973. Duracell let the US trademark lapse by 1988, and Energizer swooped in with its own version; a 1992 settlement split the rights territorially, with Duracell still owning the bunny everywhere outside the US and Canada.
de190dde-54d7-42d7-975b-3ed922303a14	Mackinac Island fudge	Mackinac Island's signature fudge started as a marketing gimmick. When the Murdick family opened a candy shop there in the 1880s, son Rome Murdick began pouring the mixture onto marble slabs and working it by hand in the shop window as a public show — the theatrics, not just the taste, are why the island now has more than a dozen fudge shops and reportedly imports roughly 10 tons of sugar a week. Tourists are still nicknamed 'fudgies.'
def35ae0-8ab7-4310-bb9a-bbf9ba84d514	The America's Cup	The New York Yacht Club held it for 132 straight years (1851–1983) — 25 straight defenses, the longest winning streak in sports history — until Australia II and its secret winged keel came back from 3–1 down in 1983. And the trophy isn't named for the country: it's named after the schooner America that won the first race around the Isle of Wight in 1851.
e08a1384-f5ef-4a7f-9032-8990ad113adb	The Disneyland Monorail	At its June 14, 1959 dedication — America's first daily-operating monorail — designer Bob Gurr piloted it with Walt Disney, VP Richard Nixon, and Nixon's daughters aboard. When the girls begged "Again!", Walt told Gurr to take a second unscheduled lap, leaving Nixon's entire Secret Service detail sprinting down the platform after a departing Vice President. Gurr later admitted the train had barely been tested and he feared it might catch fire with the Second Family aboard.
e11f6040-c975-4be8-bd13-0dc33146f58d	DEAD SEA	At ~440m below sea level, its shore is the lowest exposed land on Earth — dropping ~1m/year, shrunk from 1,050 km² (1930) to 605 km² today, spawning 6,000+ sinkholes since the 1980s. Water is 9.6x saltier than the ocean (why swimmers float effortlessly); traditionally tied to biblical Sodom and Gomorrah.
e18e5efa-fdeb-4de8-bf94-1bd6bed113df	SWEET CAROLINE (Neil Diamond)	The Red Sox have played it mid-8th-inning at every Fenway home game since 2002.
e28c461f-daeb-4f5c-b5b2-65a83a7d179e	Jenga	Jenga's name comes from the Swahili word 'kujenga,' meaning 'to build.' Inventor Leslie Scott grew up in East Africa playing a homemade version with sawmill scrap blocks her family collected, then self-published the game in England in 1983 after borrowing 15,000 pounds from a bank — Hasbro didn't pick it up until three years later.
e336190a-4ab8-40cb-921d-9caddf1d65f9	ROBOCOP	The 1987 *RoboCop* — entirely about a dystopian Detroit — wasn't filmed in Detroit. Verhoeven shot it in Dallas, TX, because Dallas had the right mix of decaying blocks next to skyscrapers to sell "Old Detroit."
e36020bc-72a7-478d-8696-4e1c48cac360	Pittsburgh Steelers	The Pittsburgh Steelers are the only NFL team with their logo on just one side of the helmet — not a design choice, an oversight. When owner Dan Rooney had the logo added in 1962, he told the equipment manager to put it on the right side and never specified both, so it only ever went on one.
e460e06f-44f3-4219-823f-db93d3b6b332	HUMMINGBIRD	Only bird capable of sustained backward flight (uniquely mobile shoulder joint, ~180° wing rotation). Can drop into overnight torpor — heart rate from 1,000+ bpm to under 50.
e46ff026-9f3d-4854-a22e-f4e636373686	Hat trick (cricket, H.H. Stephenson, 1858)	A 'hat trick' is literally about a hat. In 1858, English cricketer H.H. Stephenson took three wickets on three consecutive balls, and grateful fans passed a hat around to buy him one as a reward. The phrase later spread from cricket into hockey, soccer, and beyond.
e4885abd-9c7e-47d5-b704-c7a6ec765916	TROJAN HORSE	In Greek legend, Odysseus's hollow wooden horse let Greek soldiers sneak inside Troy's walls after a ten-year siege the Greeks couldn't win by force.
e52120e3-c40e-41cc-b00b-7379ebc4b911	GUSTAVE EIFFEL	After finishing his tower for the 1889 World's Fair, Eiffel built a private apartment at the top (piano, paisley wallpaper) he rarely let guests into. One exception: Thomas Edison, who visited Sept. 1889 and gifted him a phonograph; Eiffel's recorded voice survives in the French National Library.
e5cc56de-f85a-4f50-bc22-1cb5abfb6c14	ZOOTOPIA	For most of development, con-artist fox Nick Wilde was the film's lead and rookie rabbit cop Judy Hopps was his sidekick — the filmmakers were "very committed" to that version until a November 2014 story overhaul, well into production, flipped the leads.
e5db593b-918f-4e6f-9c4f-f56a4b627cc5	Tim Duncan	He wasn't a basketball prodigy — he was a teenage swimming standout in the 50/100/400m freestyle in St. Croix, aiming for the 1992 Olympics, until Hurricane Hugo (September 1989) destroyed the island's only Olympic-size pool. Forced into open-ocean training, his fear of sharks killed his enthusiasm, and he didn't pick up basketball until high school — then won five NBA titles with the Spurs.
e63b1d6e-87e7-40f6-8768-c89853038491	Leotard	The leotard is named after Jules Léotard, the French aerialist who INVENTED the flying trapeze — first routine performed November 12, 1859 at the Cirque Napoleon in Paris, after a childhood spent practicing over the swimming pool his father ran in Toulouse. He called his skin-tight one-piece a "maillot"; the garment only took his name after his death (he died in 1870 at just 32, likely of smallpox).
e6c812df-6a64-43c8-b2c6-2b1f27d15657	Queen Elizabeth II	When she visited the US, the Secret Service assigned her the code name "Kittyhawk" (per agent Joseph Petro, who protected her 1983 visit; the official code-name list also records "Redfern") — the same name as the North Carolina town where the Wright brothers first flew.
e76b0c5e-9bc7-445f-8bdd-f6e1e39693f7	BLACK SABBATH	Originally called Earth, the band saw a line of people across the street queued for the 1963 horror film *Black Sabbath* (dir. Mario Bava, starring Boris Karloff) — renamed themselves after it and wrote a matching song.
e7a1eddf-1999-469d-adfb-f930eaf48fd6	The traffic light (William Potts, Detroit)	The modern three-color traffic light was invented by Detroit police officer William Potts in 1920. Earlier signals were only red and green; Potts added the amber 'caution' light using railroad lamps and about $37 of wire, and built the first four-way tri-color signal for the corner of Woodward and Michigan Avenues.
e7a3cd68-a8bf-4863-83a8-2fb3b9257934	LINKIN PARK	Originally Xero, then Hybrid Theory, renamed after Lincoln Park in Santa Monica (near Chester Bennington) — deliberately misspelled "Linkin" to get the domain.
e7bb20b9-b6e2-48ba-9957-3e40d605d9d6	Chumbawamba	In 2002 General Motors paid the anarchist collective behind "Tubthumping" a reported $70,000–$100,000 (sources give both figures) to use their song "Pass It Along" in a Pontiac Vibe TV ad. The band took the check, then donated every dollar to two anti-corporate groups, IndyMedia and CorpWatch — which used GM's own money to fund campaigns against GM. They had earlier turned down $1.5M from Nike for "Tubthumping" in about 30 seconds.
e7d4398d-6461-4c53-9a82-76abc6ab8250	Shampoo	"Shampoo" entered English in 1762 from Hindi "champo" ("press, knead the muscles") — for its first century it meant a full-body massage, not hair washing (that sense didn't appear until around 1860).
e7eaba4e-5633-48ad-ae31-15f2a6594ae6	Home Alone	The real Georgian house used as the McCallister home sits at 671 Lincoln Avenue in Winnetka, Illinois — a real North Shore Chicago suburb — and sold for $5.5 million in January 2025, about $250,000 over its asking price, after only a week on the market.
e837eabf-d674-4fa0-b3c5-ae53cbf4886a	Charles Durning	The beloved comic character actor from Tootsie and Dog Day Afternoon was a decorated WWII combat veteran, landing with the 1st Infantry Division at Normandy, wounded by a mine, later fighting through the Battle of the Bulge, and coming home with a Silver Star and three Purple Hearts.
e8685014-c6c1-46ff-b10b-1bc47f0f93dc	BARBIE	Mattel's Ruth Handler invented Barbie after watching her daughter Barbara act out grown-up fantasies with paper dolls, naming the doll after her. Debuted at Toy Fair March 9, 1959, for $3, selling 300,000 in year one.
e886c499-82fd-4525-92d2-a3cab0e6c5e1	PONYTAIL	The 2012 Ig Nobel Prize in Physics went to Cambridge mathematician Raymond Goldstein and colleagues for a differential equation predicting the shape and swing of a human ponytail from hair elasticity, curliness, and gravity alone.
e904ca35-e1bf-4981-beff-413d77f5d51f	Reno	Despite Nevada sitting east of California, Reno (119°49′W) is actually farther west than Los Angeles (118°14′W) — the California coastline bends southeast enough that LA ends up east of it.
e9312efe-c9d7-46b8-87ca-fce29a40146d	SANDWICH	Named for John Montagu, 4th Earl of Sandwich — the popular card-game legend is unverified. Solid: five years later, Captain James Cook named the Hawaiian Islands the "Sandwich Islands" in his honor Jan 20, 1778, since Montagu funded Cook's voyages as First Lord of the Admiralty.
e9365d27-5860-4c30-9556-8ed5274e574c	The Colosseum	The Romans never called it the Colosseum — it was the Flavian Amphitheatre. The nickname comes from the Colossus of Nero, a ~100-foot bronze statue of the emperor that stood next door; the name "Colosseum" only appears in medieval times, centuries after the statue itself had vanished (last recorded in the late 4th century). It's named after a statue that no longer existed.
ea256858-2b83-4d45-85ea-5e2f9dc5e723	Melon Heads	West Michigan legend holds that deformed "Melon Heads" escaped a real insane asylum near Felt Mansion outside Saugatuck after abuse. The Allegan County Historical Society states no such asylum ever existed there.
eaa4df51-cd90-40ee-ac91-3bacd14cff84	Shirley MacLaine	In a 1970 California Supreme Court case still taught in first-year contracts classes, Shirley MacLaine won full pay for a canceled musical after refusing 20th Century Fox's replacement offer, a western shot in Australia - the court ruled she didn't have to take a "different or inferior" job to collect damages.
eb1c169c-77b6-4737-8b90-8c071b29e225	Samoa	Samoa skipped December 30, 2011 entirely — clocks went from 11:59pm Dec 29 straight to midnight Dec 31 — jumping across the International Date Line to align with its biggest trading partners, Australia and New Zealand. It's the only country to have crossed the date line twice: in 1892 it shifted the other direction (repeating July 4 twice) to align with US West Coast trade instead.
ec5fd438-40a2-4b30-a55d-31de6c2c2b8a	The Blair Witch Project	During the film's first year (1999), IMDb listed its three lead actors as "missing, presumed dead," and the filmmakers handed out real missing-person flyers for them at Sundance asking people to call a local sheriff — the actors had to lie low for months while their families received condolence letters.
ecce0519-d08c-4c95-baf0-55f7915678fd	Giant's Causeway	Northern Ireland's famous 40,000 interlocking hexagonal basalt columns were formed by the exact same ancient lava flow, roughly 60 million years ago, as a nearly identical rock formation across the sea in Scotland — Fingal's Cave on the uninhabited isle of Staffa — split apart when the land between them eroded away.
ecfa6b3c-fd3b-4a0a-8f01-57d9c2a0fe0d	The Sound of Music	The real von Trapp family didn't hike over the Alps to Switzerland — geographically that route would have walked them straight into Nazi Germany. In reality they crossed the tracks behind their villa in broad daylight and took a train to Italy, where Georg von Trapp held citizenship because his birthplace, Zadar, had become Italian territory in 1920. Maria von Trapp herself complained after seeing the film: "Salzburg does not border on Switzerland!"
ecff8905-0aab-4df7-8da8-877f9e466c20	Lake Superior	Lake Superior is the world's largest freshwater lake by surface area — big enough to hold every other Great Lake plus three more the size of Lake Erie — holding roughly 10% of Earth's fresh surface water.
ed5e0ead-305d-48de-a971-78be3c390f05	Uniroyal Giant Tire	The 80-foot tire looming over I-94 in Allen Park, Michigan started life as a working Ferris wheel for Uniroyal's exhibit at the 1964–65 New York World's Fair, carrying 24 gondolas and over two million riders, including Jacqueline Kennedy and her children. After the fair, Uniroyal shipped it home in 188 pieces and reassembled it minus the ride mechanism.
ed96f08e-86e7-4caf-b6ed-aa1da2b4e2c7	TYPHOID MARY	Irish-American cook Mary Mallon was the first US-identified asymptomatic typhoid carrier — infected ~57 people (3 fatally), 1897-1907, cooking without ever showing symptoms. Forcibly quarantined on North Brother Island; released 1910, went back to cooking under a fake name, triggered a 1915 outbreak, confined there until her 1938 death.
ee2bd8dd-1055-41bb-b62d-92298565f55c	CIA	In the 1960s the CIA spent roughly $20 million on "Acoustic Kitty," a real project to surgically implant a live cat with a microphone, transmitter, and antenna to eavesdrop on Soviets. Cancelled in 1967 because handlers couldn't get cats to go where they wanted; declassified 2001.
ee39af63-e2d6-4aa5-9270-27680deb93f6	Patton (George S. Patton)	Before D-Day, the Allies gave Patton command of an army that didn't exist — the First United States Army Group (FUSAG), a paper formation of 150,000 imaginary men and thousands of inflatable tanks staged in Kent and Essex — specifically because German high command feared and respected him more than any other Allied general. Patton toured southern England giving public speeches to sell the ruse (Operation Fortitude/Quicksilver), helping convince the Germans the real target was Pas-de-Calais and holding their reserves there while the actual landings hit Normandy.
ee71858b-c927-426d-8c7e-12191d5b9f6c	ANGEL FALLS	At 979m, the world's tallest waterfall — named after American aviator Jimmie Angel, who spotted it flying over Venezuela in 1933, then crash-landed atop the tepui in 1937 and hiked 11 days back to civilization.
eeb099ab-3c2e-4d44-93f4-5e8568e44e55	Ian Fleming	In September 1940, British naval intelligence officer Ian Fleming proposed 'Operation Ruthless': deliberately crash a captured German bomber into the English Channel, fake an SOS, then ambush the German rescue boat sent to help and steal its Enigma codebooks. The plan was approved but scrapped when no suitable target traffic ever materialized.
f13e5cd9-2a9c-4b69-86f3-2282406ebfc5	Monopoly	Monopoly started as the opposite of what it became: Lizzie Magie patented "The Landlord's Game" in 1904 to demonstrate how landlords impoverish tenants, building in both a monopolist ruleset and an anti-monopolist one before Parker Brothers turned it into the capitalism-glorifying classic. Decades later, British intelligence unit MI9 used real Monopoly production runs to smuggle escape kits to WWII POWs — compasses, silk maps of German territory, and real foreign currency hidden under the play money, shipped in genuine-looking Red Cross-style parcels via manufacturer Waddington's.
f20c9da7-3eb0-4471-adba-fd409d32213e	Casey Kasem	Casey Kasem, longtime host of the national radio countdown American Top 40, was born in Detroit, Michigan in 1932.
f233f5d5-12c5-4741-9631-de3ce04825ef	Airplane!	The Zucker brothers and Jim Abrahams built their 1980 disaster-parody so closely on the 1957 drama Zero Hour! that they paid $2,500 for the official remake rights to head off a copyright claim.
f26cd0f9-2d8f-4eff-aec8-87a8de118764	Sting	Sting got his nickname as a teenager for wearing a yellow-and-black striped sweater that made a bandmate say he looked like a wasp — years before he co-founded The Police.
f3112841-3349-495f-8377-5a1ef8d561fd	Furby	In January 1999 the NSA banned Furbies from its Fort Meade headquarters, fearing the "learning" toy might record and repeat classified conversations — the ban spread to the Pentagon and a naval shipyard, then was quietly lifted once the toy was shown to have no recording hardware.
f31a9c1a-9f76-454e-a10e-86a0b7a5a124	CONNECT FOUR	Released by Milton Bradley in Feb. 1974, designed by Howard Wexler and Ned Strongin.
f3716d48-3492-41ad-a794-20268ea33c7a	TRIVIAL PURSUIT	"Trivia" traces to Latin trivium — "place where three roads meet." Crossroads gossip made trivialis mean "common, everyday" by the 1580s. The noun "trivia" wasn't coined until 1902 and didn't mean "fun useless facts" until 1960s college slang.
f3a51eb4-62af-4c91-ae8a-856d7e112c59	Dodge Brothers (Dodge v. Ford)	John and Horace Dodge were born in Niles, Michigan, and were among the original investors incorporating Ford Motor Company in 1903, becoming major stockholders before splitting off in 1914 to found their own car company.
f3b3eea9-64ac-43ba-9109-819b6634695e	Antarctica	Antarctica is technically the world's largest desert — its interior gets less than 2 inches of precipitation a year, drier than Death Valley — with zero permanent residents, just a rotating population of up to ~1,000 scientists.
f3fe0dd9-3784-42a2-ae24-3222d091b23f	NICKEL	German miners found copper-colored ore that yielded no copper and blamed a trickster spirit "Nickel" (nickname for Nikolaus, kin to England's "Old Nick" = the devil) — calling it *Kupfernickel*, "devil's copper." Swedish chemist Axel Cronstedt isolated the real element and kept the goblin's name.
f428ea18-dd3e-4e49-8f25-7145d17e93f4	Twinkies	MYTH: that Twinkies never expire / last forever. Hostess's own official shelf life is 45 days from the bakery — after that they go hard and stale like any other snack cake. A scientist who opened an 8-year-old Twinkie in 2020 described the result as tasting "like an old sock."
f4951417-f85b-41b4-99fa-401bac499137	Larry O'Brien Trophy	The NBA's championship trophy is named for a man who was, at various points, JFK's campaign manager, LBJ's Postmaster General, and NBA commissioner (1975–84) — and, as DNC chairman, the guy whose office at the Watergate complex was the actual target of the 1972 break-in that brought down Nixon's presidency.
f51e08b4-8687-48da-8214-051a8bc008d1	Domino's Pizza	Domino's Pizza started in 1960 when brothers Tom and Jim Monaghan borrowed $900 to buy a single pizza shop called DomiNick's in Ypsilanti, Michigan, near Eastern Michigan University. Tom later bought out his brother's half for a Volkswagen Beetle, renamed the business Domino's, and invented the corrugated insulated pizza box — still the industry standard — so more pizzas could stack per delivery run without crushing.
f524e6aa-cfff-4875-a084-09fa5d35ed4c	SILENT NIGHT	Christmas Eve 1914, German troops began singing "Stille Nacht" from their trenches; British soldiers sang back "Silent Night." By Christmas Day roughly 100,000 men — about two-thirds of troops in the area — had climbed into No Man's Land to trade gifts and play impromptu football.
f5a4a73c-52c8-4d5e-ba3a-2f67639f60ab	M&M's	M&M's exist because Forrest Mars Sr. watched soldiers during the Spanish Civil War eating chocolate pellets with a hard sugar shell that kept them from melting in the heat. He patented the idea in 1941, partnered with Hershey president's son Bruce Murrie for wartime chocolate access, and sold the candy exclusively to the U.S. military in ration kits until 1947 — when returning GIs made it a hit with the public.
f5c42628-9eaf-485a-99a7-68ed4df608ba	SILHOUETTE	Named for Étienne de Silhouette, France's finance minister for just 8 months in 1759, whose brutal austerity taxing nobility's luxuries made his name a byword for "cheap/skimpy" (*à la Silhouette*).
f5d7b3c3-5eae-4f7a-b356-c4418ad36e7c	OCTOPUS	An octopus has three hearts and blue blood — two pump blood through the gills, one circulates it through the body, using copper-based hemocyanin instead of iron-based hemoglobin. The body-heart stops beating when the octopus swims.
f6127075-13b8-4355-93b3-2660b3a03e95	Anastasia Romanov	After the 1918 execution of Russia's imperial family, rumors persisted that youngest daughter Anastasia survived. Top claimant Anna Anderson maintained it until her 1984 death; DNA testing proved she was a Polish factory worker. The mystery closed for good in 2007–2008 when scientists identified the remains of the last two missing Romanov children via DNA.
f63539dd-0a4c-46ba-99cc-d0111b56dc0b	JELLY BELLY	Ronald Reagan was such a devoted fan the company invented a new blueberry flavor for his 1981 inauguration so red/white/blue could be represented — in 1983 he sent Jelly Bellies aboard Space Shuttle Challenger mission STS-7, the first jelly beans in space.
f65c2dae-8980-46d9-9546-8ecb6b0baecd	Oasis	Oasis took its name from a poster for the Oasis Leisure Centre in Swindon, spotted by Noel Gallagher while working as a roadie for the Inspiral Carpets in 1991.
f74690d7-bb3e-453a-acb9-3c4d43ce027a	Willie Mays	Mays is the only player in MLB history to hit a home run in every inning from the 1st through the 16th. His 1st-inning and 16th-inning bookend homers were both off the same pitcher, Warren Spahn, the 16th-inning shot winning a 1-0 game 8 years later.
f75ded29-798d-4615-8be8-af6771418fa1	Honey	Honey is one of the only foods that genuinely never spoils if kept sealed and dry — archaeologists opening 3,000-year-old sealed jars in Egyptian tombs (including some recovered near Tutankhamun's burial goods) have found honey still edible. Its low water content, high acidity, and natural hydrogen peroxide make it hostile to the bacteria and mold that spoil everything else.
f79ec83d-4d20-4732-9983-2327c1dcff25	Candy Land	Candy Land was designed in 1948 by Eleanor Abbott while she was recovering from polio in a San Diego hospital, surrounded by children in the same ward — some in iron lungs. The game needs no reading and no strategy so bedridden kids could play. She gave much of her royalties to children's charities.
f7ecdd45-9b09-417a-b44d-1d752f5ce983	Creed Bratton	The Office's Creed isn't just named after the actor — Creed Bratton plays a fictionalized version of himself, and the writers built the character around his real backstory: in the 1960s he was the actual lead guitarist of The Grass Roots, a folk-rock band with real Billboard hits ("Midnight Confessions," "Let's Live for Today"). The show's version of Creed is written as "what if the real Creed had stayed on drugs and ended up passed out in a Scranton dumpster."
f8020374-9f8b-4c26-a698-4490d457f5ac	Cheetah	Zoo cheetahs are so chronically anxious that zoos assign them emotional support dogs. The San Diego Zoo pioneered it in the early 1980s, pairing a cheetah named Arusha with a golden retriever named Anna; cubs are matched with a puppy at ~3–4 months old, and the dog's calm body language teaches the cheetah nothing is a threat — the end goal being cheetahs confident enough to breed. The companion dogs are usually shelter rescues.
f81bed1c-a3a2-4294-81d7-dc4bfe0e36a9	Steven Seagal	After his April 20, 1991 hosting stint, he was banned from SNL — and the show said so on air: in Nicolas Cage's 1992 monologue, Cage worried viewers would think him "the biggest jerk who's ever been on the show," and Lorne Michaels replied, "No, no. That would be Steven Seagal." The episode was pulled from syndication.
f9bffd37-6192-4afe-ae7a-ca7846df8bb1	Eugene Shoemaker	Geologist Eugene Shoemaker is the only human being interred on the Moon — after he died in a 1997 car crash, NASA carried an ounce of his ashes aboard the Lunar Prospector probe, which deliberately crash-landed into a lunar crater in 1998. Shoemaker himself had failed the astronaut medical exam (Addison's disease) and never got to go there alive.
fa23abde-336f-486a-b939-bd7e2fd1cb19	Mr. Monopoly's monocle	MYTH: most people confidently remember the Monopoly Man wearing a monocle. He never has, in any official art since his 1936 debut — it's a textbook "Mandela Effect," studied by University of Chicago researchers alongside similar false memories about Pikachu's tail and the Fruit of the Loom logo.
fae1d3da-55f6-4c82-81dd-c00664b3581e	Bad Company	Bad Company's name is widely credited to the 1972 Jeff Bridges western of the same title, but singer Paul Rodgers says that's wrong: he took it from a Victorian morality-book illustration captioned "Beware of bad company," and says he never even saw the movie.
fb5fcc1c-b21c-4528-9cf4-1303abfc0e7d	Dropkick Murphys	The Boston band Dropkick Murphys took their name from John 'Dropkick' Murphy, a 1930s-40s pro wrestler famous for his finishing dropkick, who later ran a real Massachusetts alcohol-rehabilitation sanatorium so associated with him that everyone just called it 'Dropkick Murphy''s.'
fb781a77-87e5-488e-a091-fd21c6544ce3	Deadpool	Deadpool's civilian name, "Wade Wilson," is an inside joke — co-creator Fabian Nicieza gave him that name because Rob Liefeld's 1990 design looked so much like DC's Deathstroke, whose real name is Slade Wilson.
fc058d46-731c-490d-bbe5-069b02d7cdee	THE LITTLE MERMAID (Ursula)	Ursula went through failed early designs as a manta ray and a scorpionfish before animator Rob Minkoff sketched a "vampy, overweight matron" the team agreed "looked a lot like Divine" — the drag performer and John Waters muse.
fc14d333-fe81-4c50-a712-222e2bd43162	2025 Ig Nobel Prize (drunk bats study)	The 2025 Ig Nobel Prize for Aviation went to a team of researchers for feeding Egyptian fruit bats alcohol-soaked food and clocking how much it slowed their flying and garbled their echolocation calls — essentially proving bats can fly drunk, badly, which is why they avoid overripe, fermented fruit in the wild.
fc290d43-ad3d-4680-a240-b53f5cd88d5f	BOYCOTT	In 1880, English land agent Capt. Charles Boycott managed 1,500 acres in County Mayo, Ireland. When he evicted tenants after a rent dispute, the Irish Land League got locals to shun him totally. Journalist James Redpath coined the verb "to boycott" that October.
fc6cd675-d83a-4902-b2c2-db4e290048bd	Stan Lee	Born Stanley Martin Lieber, he racked up roughly 45 cameo appearances across Marvel-related films — 23 in the MCU alone, Iron Man (2008) through a posthumous appearance in Deadpool & Wolverine (2024).
fca2354c-87b5-4e5f-a6b3-27eca650754c	Sweden	On "Dagen H" (H-Day), September 3 1967, all of Sweden switched from driving on the left side of the road to the right — every driver in the country pulled over at 4:50am and resumed on the opposite side at 5:00am sharp. Fatal car accidents dropped sharply afterward.
fcbb8f50-e964-48f1-aeed-f04702889704	Monopoly	Monopoly was invented by Elizabeth Magie in 1903 as The Landlord's Game — designed to teach the DANGERS of monopolies (Georgist economics). Parker Brothers bought her patent for $500, and Charles Darrow got the credit (and the fortune) for decades. The truth only surfaced publicly via a 1973 lawsuit over a game called Anti-Monopoly.
fce0a657-59bb-405f-aaa9-1486d46c1aef	Heisman Trophy	The famous straight-arm pose on the trophy isn't John Heisman — it's Ed Smith, an NYU running back who modeled for sculptor Frank Eliscu in 1934 and stayed unaware he was on the most famous trophy in college football for 48 years, until a documentary filmmaker found him in 1982.
fd438b44-7ce6-4e7c-aedb-3dd54b4f19cb	blink-182	The band's own official history says "182" was picked essentially at random one night while Tom DeLonge and Mark Hoppus were skateboarding around Poway, California — forced into a rename after an Irish band already called "Blink" threatened to sue. The widely repeated claim that 182 is the number of times "fuck" is said in Scarface is false: even ex-member Matt Skiba has publicly debunked it, and the real count lands somewhere in the low-to-mid 200s.
fd69e87a-934d-4267-b051-c124082e3812	Andre Geim	Physicist Andre Geim is the only person to win both a Nobel Prize and an Ig Nobel Prize. He took home the joke prize in 2000 for levitating a live frog with magnets, then the real Nobel Prize in Physics in 2010 for isolating graphene, a material one atom thick.
fdbd2136-2278-4351-a2bf-47d8c1ad21ce	Scrabble	Scrabble's letter values were set in the 1930s by unemployed architect Alfred Butts, who hand-counted letter frequency on the front page of the New York Times (plus the Herald Tribune and Saturday Evening Post). He included only four S tiles specifically so plurals wouldn't make the game too easy. His counts are still the distribution used today.
fee2402d-0ebe-47a3-9248-a9b707de895a	Van Halen	Van Halen's 1982 tour rider demanded a bowl of M&M's backstage with "ABSOLUTELY NO BROWN ONES" — not diva excess but a deliberate trap: the technical rider ran dozens of pages of stage-weight and safety specs, and a stray brown M&M proved the venue hadn't read it.
feeaa091-477c-43d2-8a88-673c6b7905b3	The Lawnmower Man	Stephen King successfully sued to strip his own name off the 1992 film "Stephen King's The Lawnmower Man," a federal judge ruling the credit fraudulent since the script barely used his short story. When the studio kept his name on the home-video release anyway, King sued again.
ff337dd3-5c52-4d47-b2e6-14161ff202cb	EDDIE THE EAGLE EDWARDS	Britain's first Olympic ski jumper finished dead last in both events at the 1988 Calgary Games — by a landslide — becoming a global sensation the closing ceremony shouted him out.
ffd669f1-ad3c-487d-9e54-9f44095a6d5d	PRINGLES	Chemist Fredric Baur spent two years designing Pringles' saddle-shaped chip and tubular can for P&G in the 1960s. When he died in 2008 at 89, his family honored his wish and buried part of his cremated remains inside an Original-flavor Pringles can.
fff607fa-96cb-4cac-999b-6b4f7bb704ac	Nice	"Nice" meant "foolish, ignorant, senseless" when it entered English around 1300, from Latin "nescius" (not-knowing) — it didn't pick up its modern "pleasant" meaning until the 1700s.
